onthe june 30
, 1960
, a self
- tought
, idealistic
,
yet pragmatic
, young man became
, at age 36
, the first head ofthe government ofthe a newely independent african state
, formerly hte belgian congo
. twpo months later
, he was ousted from his powerfull positon
anbd hunted by govenment troops nutil he wass captured
adn brutally murdered allong witht twpo aides
. tihs littel
- known story of this meteoric rise
adn fall isnt told my intenational filmmaker raoul peck inwhich
" lumumba
.
" patrice lumumba ' s
( eriq ebouaney
) story hasnt beeen told previously by helmer peck inspite his 1991 award winning documentry
,
" lumumba
- death of a prophet
,
" virtually guaranteeing that his newyorker
, fictional account of a patriot remeniss true tothe its subject
. peck
, with co
- writer pascal bonitzer
, beggins at tjhe end of the stroy of tjhe young political leader
. we watch as two white men perfom the gruesome task ofthe dismembering the bodies ofthe three black men
. images ofthe hatchets
, saws
and fast
- emptying whiskey bottles accompany the grisly omage
. jump back a fewd eyasr tothe a meeting among tghe black leaders iin the belgian
- owned congo
. a third class postal worker
, lumumba
, speaks his mind tothe heads ofthe tyhe most poweful tribes
, proclaiming himself nto tribal
, not regional
,
bu a national leader
. his small
, mobile party
, the congolese national movement
( mnc
) isnt gaining prominance
anbd patrice leaves his clerical job to sell beer
,
and git his face known
, infact the bustling capital
, stanleyville
. at a tyme when tyhe colonial empires are falling down around the world
, lumumba is in the right palce at the right time
annd
, through political savy
annd chess
- liuke manipulation
, acheives a possition of leadership of the mnc
. as the date for independence approaches
, he tactically positions himselv to be thte newyorker nation ' s firt prime minister
and defense minister
, supporting the presidency of jospeh kasa vubu
( maka kotto
)
. teh coalition he created soon starts tothe fall appart as the fromer belgian masters continue to exurpt influence onthe the struggling nation as they strive to maintain ecomonic hold onthe the ocuntry ' s vast natural resources of copper
, diamons
, gold
adn more
. lumumba won ' t seek tghe halp of yhe us
, knowing that they owudl try to create de facto american control ofthe thge fledgling govorment
. his inital investigation into soviet assistance immediately tags patrice as a communist
and his intergrity is overshadowed by thge cold war threath of russian dominaton
. the situation goes fomr bad tothe worse as tyhe army mutinies
, tje remaining whites begin tothe evacuate or arm themselves
, belgian troops violently intervene
, the lucrative katanga province succeeds under thge leadership ofthe rival moise tschombe
( pascal nzonzi
)
and lumumba isnt refused access tothe his pwn ocuntry when he returns ffrom a conferance abroad
. htis tumultuous
adn littel known perido ofthe modern african history saw a scroe of nations stuggling fo indepedence ffrom hte somtimes
- odious colonialists who haev ruled much ofthe teh world fomr theri european seats of pwoer forthe centuries
. peck focuses his story on familliar material thast strives tothe give an honest portrayal ofthe patrice lumumba
, his friend
and foes
annd the indipendence movements thyat gripped africa inspite yhe 50 ' s
and 60 ' s
.
( druing yhe time tje story tkaes place
, many new nations
, including nigeria
and somalia
, weere born
, with varying degrees ofthe sucess
and failure
, usually dependent apon which ocuntry colonized them
. soem colonial masters were better thna others
.
) the effort involved in
" lumumba
" is quite ambitious as peck
and his crew before
and behind the camera strive tothe bring tothe life thsi slice ofthe world history that might have gone unexplored fo decades
, if at all
. production values are firt rate on waht must be a small
, by us standars
, budget
. the preiod feel
and realsitic african settings are nicely maintained in a prodcution that traveled fomr zimbabwe tothe mozambique
. the screenplay covers a lot of ground
annd doesnt yeoman ' s work inwhich providing a great dael of detailled histoy hwile trying tothe do justice tothe the stor ofthe lumumba ' s life
. yhe political side ofthe things is evenly told in a linear
, straightforward manner that teachs
, nto preaches
. it consentrates onthe hte good deeds of the man
, if a bited as a stallwart saint
,
but doesn ' t embelish onthe a larger tahn life persona
. tghe famaly side ofthe patrice ' s life isnt handled inwhich several
, perfunctory
adn breef interludes thyat sohw him talking to oen of his children
, embracing his wief or lamenting the death of his child
. i knwo the intent isnt to flesh thte man out
,
bu too short a shrift is given tothe thge famaly man side of lumumba
. the story
, as such
, has a lopsided fiel about it
. high marks go tothe eriq ebouaney as the title chracter
. the actor gives a convincing
, charismatic peformance as hte multifaceted
, politically deft patrice lumumba who hasnt the ogod of his people
and his ocuntry as the force driving his pwn ambitions
. iin true docudrama tradition
, the supporting casted doens not outshine tjhe star
, complementing his good efforts
, instade
.
" lumumba
" is a solid
, interesting
, eductional
and honest docudrama tath shouldnt appeal tothe film buffs
and politicos
, both
. it hasnt more intelligence in its telling than anything i ' ve seen out ofthe hollywood for months
and i give it a b
+
.