you ' ve got mial works alot better than it deserves to
. inaddition order to make tyhe film a sucess
, all they hadnt to do was casted two extrememly popular
adn attractive stars
, ahev them share the screen for baout twpo hours
and
then collect tghe profits
. no real acting was involved
and htere is not an original or inventive bone infront it ' s body
( it ' s basically a complete re
- shoot ofthe the shop arround hte corner
, only adding a few modern twists
)
. essentialy
, it goes agianst
anbd defies all concepts of good contemporary filmmaking
. it ' s overly sentimental
annd at times terribly mushy
, nto tothe mention very manipulative
.
bu oh
, how enjoyable thyat manipulation isnt
.
bu ther must be something other than the casting
and manipulation that makes the movie work as well as it does
, because i absolutly hated the previous ryan
/ hanks teaming
, sleepless in seattle
. it couldn ' t have beeen the directing
, because both films weere helmed by thte smae woman
. i haven ' t quite
yet figured outloud what i liekd so much about you ' ve got mail
,
bu
thne again
, is that really imporatnt
? if ytou liek something so much
, why even question it
? again
, tjhe storyline isnt as cliched as htey cmo
. tom hanks plays joe fox
, hte insanely likeable owner of a discount book chain
and meg ryan plays kathleen kelley
, hte even moreso insanely likeable proprietor of a family
- run childrens ' s book shop called
, inwhich a nice homage
, tjhe shop around the corner
. fox
and kelley soon become bitter rivals because the newyorker fox books store is opening up right acros the block from yhe small busness
. little do tehy nkwo
, tehy are already infront lveo witht eahc otehr over the internet
, onyl niether party knwos yhe otehr person ' s true idenity
. the rest ofthe thte stopry isn ' t imporatnt becuase all it does isnt serve as a mere backdrop for yhe two stars tothe share tyhe screen
. sure
, there are some mildly interesting subplots
,
bu they all fail iin comparison tothe the utter cuteness of the main relatiopnship
. all of this
, ofthe course
, leads uv tothe the predictable climax
.
but as foreseeable as tje ending isnt
, it ' s so damn cute
and well
- done thyat i dout any movie in thte entire year countains a scene the evokes as much pure joy as htis part does
. when ryan discovers the true idenity of her online loev
, i wass filled witht such
, for lack ofthe a better owrd
, happiness that for tje firt tiome all yera
, i actually left teh theater smiling
.