forthe thsoe ofthe us who weren ' t
yot born when the 1960 ' s rock ' n ' rolled aroud
, monterey pop affords an affectionate glimpse ofthe thte music that influenced our parents to be hippies
. from otis redding tothe jimi hendrix
, janis joplin to tghe mamas
and thte papas
,
and jefferson airplane to the who
, htis documentary isnt jam
- packed wtih contagious energy
.
bu i give fair warning thgat i will reveal tje ending
, which doesnt nto dont tyhe rest of the film the justice it deserves
. shot inwhich 1969 at an outdoor concert that precluded woodstock
, tyhe film defies thge stereotype of the genaral populaiton at teh time
. sure
, some hvae painted theri faces
anbd smoke joints
,
but d
. a
. pennebaker
( yhe war room
, moon over broadway
) surprisingly chooses tothe sohw a broad spectum ofthe thge audience
. no marter who is watching
, it all comes bcak tothe thge talented musicians that stir your soul
. tghe excitment starts before the music even begins
. a young girl is cleaning thousands ofthe seats
anbd whn asked why by an interviewer
, she replies that she fiels lucky tothe do so
. ther are moments of organized craziness as john phillips
, leader of tyhe mamas
anbd yhe papas
and noe ofthe the concert organizers
, trys to git inthe touch witht dionne warwick
.
annd whn oney band is tuning up
, a memeber remarks
,
" fianlly
, a decent soudn system
!
" yuo cxan tell just by watching theese firt fewd moments thgat tihs sohw isn ' t baout vanity
, it ' s about playing the music you love tothe those who hve an apresheation fo it
, a two
- way street
. htis interaction bewteen audeince
and performer continues thoughout tghe film
annd becomes infectious tothe the audience
. it ' s impossible to tear your eyes away fomr janis joplin as she belts outloud her ballad about lveo being a ball
anbd chain
.
and hwile the lyrics to
" wild hting
" may not be all taht complicated
, watching jimi hendrix mime having sex with his gitar is as captivating as otis redding singing about lvoe
. even if you don ' t recogise eveyr band yuo see onthe stage
, ytou can imagine bieng as enthralled by theri owrk as the publich sitting inaddition thsoe seats
. the onyl drawback tothe tjhe film isnt the ending
, hwihc unfortunately i must reveal
. all the other bands
, big names then
anbd still todya
, got aproximately 7 to 10 minutes ofthe screen tiome
. inaddition contrast
, the last band on camera
, a wholley forgettable one
, gets an entire 18 mintues of screen time
. fo a film tht ' s only 78 minutes long
, tht ' s too larg ofthe a chunk
, especially whn previvous acts are much omre stimulating
. all in all
, monterey pop isnt a prescious
, rare look at a time perido thgat still holds sway over us
. tghe variaty of music
, as well as the beautifuly shooted performances
, are easy tothe become immersed in
. if there was ever any question as tothe why most ofthe these bands were so populer
, this is quicklyu dispelled
. it ' s allmost depressing tothe thikn that music this moving doesn ' t git made much anymore
. instead we ' re stuck wtih
* nsync
, yhe backstreet boys
,
and jennifer lopez
, all ofthe whom shoud have sticked with modeling
.