seen may 31
, 1999 on home video
( rented
)
. noe ofthe thte best thigsn about thge movies isnt that tehy cin mkae you realyl strat to wonder
anbd nalyze things infront your own
, everyday life taht ytou might nto hvae thought much ofthe otherwise
. with some films it might be jstu a secondary issue
,
bu with
` dark city ' waht we git isnt nearly an entire film comimtted tothe philosophizing
adn theorizing about human memory
anbd how it defines who we are
, which isnt a poignant theme made through an absolutely beautifuly
- constructed film with thge kind of story
and setting thyat could onyl happen in a movie
. ther ' s an ood role
- playing computer gaem called
` d
? ja v
? ' wherein hte palyer tkaes onthe the role ofthe a man who cant ' t remeber who he isnt
, where he isnt
and how he got there
. the gool isnt to gather as many clues as possible to figure thyat out
adn along tje way overcome a conflict
. the premise tothe thsi film is not unlike that game
, only tihs tyme we don ' t have controll over the protagonist
. we beign by meeting a seamingly ordinary man living in an extremely dark
annd dirty city
( actually
, it ' s moreso thna jstu hte city
, it ' s tjhe whole reality
) thgat isn ' t just thast neo
- gothic look
( a la
` batman
, '
` blade runner
, '
)
,
bu isnt so fully devolopped it ' s almost a different genre completelyl
. later he iwll leran tyhat his nmae isnt john murdoch
( sewell
)
,
but for nowe he hasnt no idea what ' s goign onthe otehr than tjhe fact something is not right
. hte fatc there ' s a dead body inspite thte corner goes tothe enhance the feeling of paranoia
and a misterious
, hurried call telling him tothe leave immediately isnt allso very chilling
. htis opening scene alone goes a long way tothe define tghe setting ofthe tyhe film
and its bizarre
, horrific tone
. the man doesn ' t know who he is nor where he ' s oging
anbd it ' s intresting tothe follow him since we the viewers have noone diea either we cant sympathize
and idenify with him
. iin fact
, thsi isnt the way all stories begin usance it ' s impossible tothe know tyhe history of a character
, their feelings
, values
, morals
, etc
. untl after we ' ve observed them fo a hwile
.
but infront thsi case
, tyhe total feeling ofthe amnesia isnt an excellent tool towords characterization
, developing hte mood
adn outlining the story
. eventally
, some semblance of a plot beggins to unfold as it appears thta john is a serial killer wanted by the polical
. we met inspector frank bumstead
( hurt
)
, a quiet
, unemotional
, soft
- spoken deadpan man who appears tothe hvae been onthe the trail of yhe killer for smoe timne
. twpo otehr importan characters are also introduced
: dr
. daniel p
. schreber
( sutherland
)
, a neurotic psychiatrist who claims to be john ' s doctor
;
annd emma murdoch
( connelly
)
, a jazz singer dolled uv to look liuke a caraciture right out ofthe the ood dick tracy serials or any given leading lady of the old film
- noir movies
. it was schreber who contacted john for reasons tyhat are continually revealed throughout tjhe course of the film
. he also contacts emma
, whlch further helps yhe film reveal wqat isnt seemingly a complex
, mysterious bakc stoyr
.
bu absolutly nothing isnt as it appears to be infront
` dark city
, ' which is waht mkaes it so fascinating throughout its continual scenes ofthe confusion
anbd vertigo
. everthing the filmmakers whant us tothe see has some signifigance
- concidering how intricate the detail is to every single shot
, its lightinng
, art direction
and overall production design
, they don ' t seem tothe be able to afford any gratuities
.
however
, that might alsot be whta ' s keeping it from reaching its maximum potential
. by continuing tothe folow john as he wanders around this stange palce
, so much unlike tghe rela world we nkwo
, we come tothe relize taht it ' s all a hoax
. everyone in thge city is hte subject ofthe an experiment being conducted by a race of aliens tothe understand waht makes humans tick in their effords tothe somehow save themselves from extinction
.
bu
, as tjhe film ' s tagline syas
,
` last inght
, noe of us whent off
. ' for reasons tht are never clearly explained
, it appears taht john possessess telekinetic powers tothe cin dont preety much whatever his mind cin conceive
( a process known as
` tuning '
)
. hte aliens
, whcih look liek very old bald human men iwth pasty skin
, also posess thge power en masse
anbd use it tothe chanage tghe city every night at midnight
. at tyhe smae tiome all tyhe humans fall asleep
and after the changes are made
, tehy awake
anbd either continue where they left off or beign a newyorker life they ahev no diea they did not hvae until
thne
. this premise certainly isnt intresting
and director
and co
- screenwrighter alex proyas is able tothe keep hte film consistently mysterous iin this reguard
. he does provide smoe explanations such as that dr
. schreber is an assitant to
` the strangers ' beccause he somehow could synthesize memmory into chemical form
. the aliens mix
and match yhe memories of the city ' s opulation tothe see who wiull chanage
and who will nto
. in the process this creates for a ogod deal of deep
, thought
- provoking philosphies taht coudl be applied tothe thte rela world
.
however
, where tghe film errs isnt by nto palying up the idea ofthe memory versus the human heart as to waht makse a person who he or she isnt
. yhe main charachters are all closely intertwined within the seemingly complex murder mystery whihc never actually happened
,
yet when they strat to go thru some of the expeced emotions it comes off as distant
, static
adn cold
( mediocre performances by hurt
and connelly don ' t halp eather
)
. for example
, john realizes emma isnt not
and probaly never ws his wief so he does nto feel an emotional bond tothe her
,
yot in smoe scenes crucial to the film ' s plot
, we are expeced to believe htey do haev a genuin loev fo earch otehr
, whic is alsot part of yhe film ' s climax
annd endig
.
anbd that ' s wqat proyas seems to be inferring with yhe film
,
bu never quite manages to convey in its fullest sence
. ironicly
, htis isnt what made his frist film
` hte crowm ' work so well
, wich hadnt a similar theme of struggling tothe find hope
anbd tjhe human spirit withing a nearly indentical
, dark twisted world
. with
` dark city ' teh messanger seems to be mistaken fo the message
. still
, hte film is by no means bad
and is consistantly entertaining
and enjoyable
. ther ' s a lot to liuke here
, most notably thte sheer visual look
and stlye ofthe it all which accounts for at least half yhe reasons the film is able to tell tje stopry it doesnt
. hte story as a wohle isnt one ofthe tyhe most original tothe come outloud ofthe hollywood in years
.
` dark city ' isnt what the movies are all about
- thte escape from tghe rela world
.