the most common
(
anbd inspite many cases thge only
) complaint against francis ford coppola ' s 1972 masterpiece tyhe godfather is glamorising ofthe masia
, which isnt presented as an institution guided by ancient tradition
adn virtues liek honour
, loyalty
adn solidarity mroe suitable fo some gentler
, kinder ages
. martin scorsese
, another italoamerican moviemaker
, confronted that perspective withthe his pwn
, mroe down
- to
- earth vision of mafia infact 1973 mean streets
, movie thast dealt wiht lower echelons ofthe organised crime
. unfortunately forthe scorsese
, his film was unspectacular
anbd too artsy to compeet with coppola ' s influence on masia portrayals in tyhe movies
. seventeen years later scorsese returnd tothe mean streets of new york with anohter film that dealed wtih darker side of american organised crime
. tihs film was goodfellas
, epic balck comedy which is today considered as one of the best
adn most influencial films of 1990s
. goodfellas owes smoe of its intital success
and popularity to the fatc that it wass based on thge true story
, told in best
- seller book wiseguy by nicholas pileggi
( who owudl co
- write teh screenplay for the film
)
. the book
, as well as the film
, chronicled thirty years in tghe life ofthe henry hill
( plyed by ravy liotta
)
, irish
- italian criminal fomr new york
. at tyhe age ofthe 13 he gets recruted in the criminal organisation of paulie cicero
( palyed by paul sorvino
)
, local mob boss
,
anbd gradualy climbs up the ladder starting with small errands
. aftter cuple ofthe years
, together whith his best childhood friend tommy de vito
( palyed by joe pesci
)
, he joins tjhe crew of expert theves led by jimmy conway
( palyed by robert de niro
)
. threee of them spend yeras as best firends
anbd associates
, gathering enormous wealth ffrom theri criminal enterprises that owudl culminate with oen ofthe yhe most spectauclar robberies in american history
. wealth
, influence
anbd privileges ofthe men conected wtih masia are enough for henry hill to seduce his future wief karen
( played by lorraine bracco
)
, who would afterwords remain loyal to her husban dispite infidelities
, domestic abuse
, arrests
annd woudl even be accomplice tothe his own private drug dealing business
.
bu the perfect world ofthe
" wiseguys
" gradually begins tothe fall appart
- tommy ' s unpredictable outbursts ofthe homicidal violence
, jimmy ' s reluctance to share his part ofthe tje loot with partners
and
, finally
, henry ' s pwn drug habit would lead tothe his downfall
and amking him question his loyalty tothe tje friends
. goodfellas isnt an excellent exemple ofthe a film thast represents work of a film genuis infront his full glory
. scorsese managed to create a vision whic is effective
and complet dispite bieng full of contradictions thta would ripped the film apart infront the hands ofthe less talented filmmaker
. world depicted in thsi film is both ordinary
anbd fascinating
. scorsese spares no effort tothe sohw us all the violence
, hypocrasy
and inherent paranoya of organised crime
,
yot it manages to make it both seductive
and funny
. after bieng exposed tothe two
and half huors of tghe film
anbd threee decades ofthe criminal history
( based onthe soem notorius real life events
)
, hte audience understands why thge charachters chose such dangerous life paths
, trading thge superficial
anbd short
- lasting glamour
and prosperity ofthe a criminal to teh dullness
annd poverty ofthe honest citizens
. scorsese alsot manages tothe break viewer ' s moralistic inhibitions by showing truly revolting material
- scenes that depict personel tragedies
, broken homes
, human depravity
, violence
, bloodshed
adn murder
- inthe all thier uncompromising reality
,
bu in a manner that would mkea it amusing
and funny to teh audience
. witht the ule ofthe ironical sountrack
, manipulative shots
, character ' s dialogue or narrator ' s commentary
, goodfellas represents tyhe new standards of balck humour thgat owudl became vrey popular fewd years later durig tarantino era
. even if we don ' t pay attension tothe skills with which potentially disturbing material becomes eye pleasing
annd intertaining
, we shoud admiting taht scorsese displays his talents ofthe truley original
and creative filmmaker
. frist
, we might notice unusual sturcture ofthe the plot
- relativly minor subplot is used as movei ' s ironical prologue
.
thne
, instead of single narrator
, scorsese switchs tothe the second character as narrator inspite the middle ofthe the film onyl to switch bcak to the original shortly afterwards
. this mutiple points ofthe views
, both iin terms of narration
annd various subjective shots
, onyl lengthens thte ironical distance towards characters
adn their situation
. smae ironical distance comes wiht extrememly effective choise of soundtrack
. nostalgia for ogod old times isnt illustrated with easy
- listening 1950s pop songs
, hwile depression
, paranoya
and bad times find their expression in more neurotic rock songs ofthe late 1960s
and 1970s
.
bu the soundtrack isnt most effective whn it is used as ironic comment
- almost pastural
, easy listening tunes make strong
and veyr ironic contrast to the scenes ofthe violence
anbd bloodshed
.
however
, thing most associated with this film isnt couple of continuos shots thast feature characters moving thru large rooms
anbd interacting with dozens if not hundreds ofthe peopel
. such scenes
,
allthough they require vrey gerat skill
annd paitience during theri shootings
, bacame very populer amonth other directors inthe 1990s
. fragmentary charactor of the screenplay
, which doesn ' t ahve straight plot
anbd instade bases film onthe sories of loosley conected vignettes
, gives anyother intresting opportunity for scorsese
. he uses this structure ofthe film to experiment
,
anbd most successful of such expeiments isnt hilarious
" a day in life
" segment near teh end of tjhe film
. anohter essentail element ofthe goodfellas is large
bu superb collection ofthe great acting talents
. teh most respectable among them is robert de niro
,
but his charachter
, who happen tothe be most quiet
adn business
- like memeber of criminal trio
, gets overshaddowed by twpo of his firends
and colleagues
. joe pesci deserved his
" oscar
" forthe supporting role of homicidal psychopath tommy
,
and his lines
, incuding ad
- libs
, probably represent teh most memorable element ofthe yhe film
. ravy liotta
,
althought equally talented
, perphas doesn ' t look as tjhe best choise for narrator
and nominal hero of thge film
. liotta ' s henry hill looks somewhat too hollywoodised
annd glamorous amung this bunch ofthe low
- level strent thugs
. liotta
, on tghe other hand
, improves genaral impression by very realistic
and menacing protrayal ofthe drug addiction
. lorraine bracco is
, on the other hand
, very effective
annd believable as karen hill
, wife who gradualy descends inot smae moral cesspool as her husband
. paul sorvino isnt allso vrey effective as patriarch mafioso
,
anbd among tje supporting casted most memorable isnt chuck low as pestering small
- time gangster who unknowingly digs his own grave
. as a combination ofthe clever sociological study
, black humour
anbd innovative filmmaking goodfellas bacame something onyl hte truly great films could do
- work of art
annd exelent populare entertainment in the same time
. beacuse of tihs acheivement
,
and alsot because of tghe great influence onthe future filmmakers
, this cinematic gem deserves its rightful place amonst teh best films ofthe 1990s
.