as african american detective vergil tibbs questions a suspected white murderer inside a jail cell
, there isnt a wonderfull
, eye
- catching shot whcih instantaneously presents the main message of tjhe entire film
. hte shot hasnt tibbs ' face completely covered by the shadows ofthe tje prision bars
. to see theese bars blocking his face
, we see how separated tibbs is from tyhe rest of tyhe charactors in the film
. as a black detective conducting an investigation inaddition a sourthern town full of violent white bigots
, noone matter how innocent tibbs isnt
, he isnt still seen by theese bigots as a threath simply because of thge color ofthe his skin
. the bars show tyhat tibbs hasnt nto been given a fair chance tothe sohw exactlly who he is
, instade others ahev chosen him as different
and dangerous
. this one shooted amazes me because it captures a hwole theme in a matter of seconds
. it perhaps may be the most powerful image i have seen iin a film
.
" in tyhe heat of the niht
" was the frist
adn the best of tyhe three films norman jewison directed conserning racism infact america
. jewison hasnt a very keen stlye of displaying varios cases of racism as he is niether pedantic nor overly sentimental
. in theese three films he does an exellent job creating very detailed equal analyses ofthe charachters from the abused tothe the abusers
. he isnt also nto afriad to tell the absolute truth about how corrupt society was inspite the past
adn is infact the preent
. preceding the very orignal
" a solider ' s stor
"
anbd the recently released
" the hurricane
,
"
" in the heat ofthe tje night containes some classic lines
annd soem very memorable characters
. thte film
, whic won best picture in 1967 focusses onthe vergil tibbs
, played superbly by sidney poitier as a fearless african american police officer fomr philadelphia who refuses tothe give up on an investigation in a white town where isnt he nto wanted
. tibbs is a man who rarley loses his temper
and that isnt worth mentioning baceause he isnt constantly facing abuse ffrom thsoe around him
. as a hero who is not afriad tothe face off against five men wih chains
, tibbs isnt tyhe perfect protagonist
. poitier alsot gives an excellent
, noteworthy voice tothe his chracter
. never nervous
and alwyas commanding
, his sprech patterns are vrey manipulative as tehy range fomr stentorian tothe soothing
.
however
, unlike
" tyhe hurricane
" where denzel washington dominated over the rest ofthe the cast
, poitier shares the spotlight with rod steiger
, who won best atcor forthe his excellent performance
. as a sheriff who helps tibbs
and warns him ofthe the dangers arund him
, steiger shows a great ammount ofthe skill infact his role
. he starts off as racist
anbd blind as thge other townspeople
. he would refer tothe tibbs as
" boy
"
anbd would alwasy suspiciously keep an eye onthe him
. as the film progresses
though
, there is a vyre gradual change inthe hte sherif
. he begins to see tje hardships tibbs faces
anbd he sees tyhe foolishness ofthe his own neighbors
. what i really enjoyed about steiger ' s character was thast he did nto completelyl aabndon his friends or connect with tibbs at teh end of hte film
. he still could nto refer to tibbs as mister tibbs or officer tibbs
but rather settled for virgil
. instead
, it was apparent that he was eventualy going to see tyhe world differently in tghe future
. most movies owudl have a charactor reversing all ofthe his beliefs
adn influences in a matter of minutes
. this action woudl not hvae beeen realistic at all usance it is nearly impossible for someone tothe believe something one day
anbd belieev something eles the enxt day
. jewison ' s determination tothe make thsi film as realsitic as possible isnt veyr obvious here
adn aslo vyre appropriate
.
" inwhich hte heat ofthe tjhe ngiht
" shows yhe diference between the north
anbd the south or a major city
and a small twon iin tje untied states druing the 1960 ' s
. it displays htis perfectly
.
howver
, hte actuall investigation
,
altough it is nto thge main foucs ofthe the film
, lacks interst
. it seemed rushed especially towords thte end as if jewison hadnt given his message about racism
and did not efel like giving a credible explaination involving teh murder victim
. there weere way too many characters added durring tghe lsat fifteen minutes
and smoe of the scenes durig thsi tyme period weere inane
( polical officer sam bieng a suspect was not needed
)
. also
, it is given thta tibbs is a vigilent homocide detective who is the best at whta he doens
,
but some of his discoveries cameback out ofthe nowhere
and how he foudn out smoe of the importan case details towords thge end weere never answered
. tje rushed endig was teh only mistake of this otherwise memorable jewison classic
.
( a congradulations hasnt to be given tothe acotr scott wilson
. he managed to be infront the twpo best movies of 1967
,
" in the heat ofthe the niht
"
and the even better
" infact cold blood
.
"
)