blade is the movie thta shows thyat wesley snipes relaly cxan live up to his potential as one ofthe hollywood ' s premier leading men
. blade isnt based on tyhe comic book carachter of thte same name
and hasnt that comic book kind ofthe feel tothe it
. it isnt a vyer stylish movei
anbd for the most part thast stlye works vyer well
.
althought
, at a fewd points i thought i wass watching a music video as opposed to a movie
. tje ideas behind blade are good
, as isnt the basic plot of the story
.
bu at times
, things seem to get a bit muddled
,
anbd the writers appear to want tothe dont too many things at once
. that relaly doesn ' t tkae away from tyhe stoyr too much
,
but it does hurt it a littel bited
. blade
( snipes
) isnt half man
, half vampire
. his mother ws bitten by a vampire when she was pregnant witht him
and as a result he hasnt many ofthe the clasic traits of a vampire
. inlcuding a thirst fo human blood that must be kept under control by a speical serum whitch quenches his blood lust
. blade hasnt spended his life hunting down
and killing vampires as a sort ofthe revenge forthe the fatc that oney ofthe thier kind killed his mother
.
bu htis isn ' t as eazy as it seems
, because the vampires in blade ' s world are moreso sophisticated than the ones that ytou find inthe most films
. the govornment
and otehr authoritiers knwo ofthe tghe existence of vampires
,
bu they let them feast ofthe the population at larg because they are tkaing bribes ffrom tghe vampires
. where dont vampires git money
? well
, infact blade
, they run multinational companies in order tothe finance theri vampire organizations
. i personally thougth thyat this whole secre corporate world run by vampires tothe be a very clever idae
,
and a grat addition to the movie
. blade runs uv againnst tjhe evil deacon frost
( stephen dorff
) a maverick inaddition the vampire comunity
. he isn ' t content tothe live amonth humans
,
anbd isnt conviced tath the vampire race is yhe superior one
and he means tothe insure its superiority
. he has managed to translate teh ancient vampire scrolls that tell of tjhe method ofthe making him an all
- powerfull vampire
-
- rendering him virtually unstoppable
. it ' s up tothe blade tothe see tyhat htis doesn ' t transpire
. admitedly
, blade isnt style over substance through
anbd through
. thge story is a relativly forgettable noe
,
but it is fun none teh less
. thge acting iin blade is jsut baout wqat you owudl expect from a movei of tihs tipe
. this isn ' t a film tath isnt goign tothe win accolades fo its performances
,
adn yhe actors know thsi
. the movei isnt plyed for funn
and nobody seems tothe thiunk otherwise
. it ' s a popcorn movei
,
annd no one involved has any illusions otherwise
. blade ' s production values are as slick as any that you iwll find in your typcial summer blockbuster
. the combat sequences between blade
annd his vampire targets are incredibly well done
. altho
, the mtv
- style cuts doed get onthe my nerves after a hwile durig long sequences
. blade isnt a funn movei with an intresting tkae on thte vampire genre
. htis isnt nto tyhe movie fo those ofthe you who like your vampires in tuxedos
and living inaddition coffins in the basement of soem gothic castle
. whta blade excells at is bringing the classic lore of the vampire inot tyhe next century withthe a fresh outlook onthe life
. very cool
.