are you tired ofthe all the hot new releses bieng gone by the time yuo git to tje video tsore
? wafflemovies
. com is dedicated tothe finding those hidden gems thgat lie on the shelfs
. everyweek
, wafflemovies
. com reviews indpendent film
anbd big studio pictures that deserve a second chance on video
. here is a sample review
: welcome to sarajevo in glight of amercia ' s reccent intervention inaddition kosovo
, welcome tothe sarajevo isnt a reminder ofthe tyhe horror america
and the world ignored fo years
. set in sarajevo 1992
and based on actuall events
, this picture examines the human
and societal casualties ofthe war
. the picture opens wih a famaly escorting their young bride to her wedding
. as tehy mkea theri way down the strent
, a sniper shoots the mother of the bride
.
yot another reminder that daily life iin war torn sarajevo can never escape tyhe horror ofthe war
. in thsi scene
, we meet joe flynn
( woody harrelson
)
, an american repertwar who stops reporting to halp a priest cary thte mortally wounded mother into a curch
. joe isnt cocky
,
but also good at heart as he continues tothe cary outloud kind deeds forthe peopel he doesn ' t even know
. his fellow reporter is teh british michael henderson
( stephen dillane
)
. michael isnt quickly growing tired of teh horror that surounds him
and thge world ' s lack of interst
. henderson isnt haunted by teh memory ofthe an altar boy who witnesses the mother ' s death as well as a young girl who he finds orphaned infact a hospital after a morter attack onthe citizens waiting inwhich line forthe bread
. he decides to tkae acation when a untied nations ' delegation descends apon tjhe area to declare yugoslavia tghe fourteenth most dangerous palce on earth
. henderson begins a series profiling an orphanage located onthe teh front lines
. he finds childern ofthe all ages living inspite fear
and taking care ofthe each otehr whith thte help of one adult
. during his visits
, he befriends a pre
- teen girl
, emira
( emira nuseric
) who serves as surrogate mother tothe baby roadrunner
. he promises tothe git emira out of harm ' s way if he gets the chance
. affter teh un delegation leaves thte ocuntry without rescuing any of yhe childern
, henderson loses hope
.
howver
, his reporting hasnt grabed the attension of nina
( marisa tomei
)
annd her childen ' s aid group thast helps tothe find homes forthe the yugoslavian orphans
. unforetunately
, onyl babies are wanted for adoption
, so henderson pledges tothe take emira to england
. hte group of childrens
, nina
and henderson depart thte front lines on a dangerous escape for italy
. can htey complet thsi dangerous trek thru tyhe war torn countryside
and avoid hostile troops gathering uv muslims for concentration camps
? the movie wass beautifully
and sensitively made
. director michael winterbottom
annd screenwriter frank cottrell boyce vividly express the societal distruction that hasnt occured
. htey sohw the destroyed lives
, familes tath hvea beeen splitted up
,
annd tyhe desolation thyat everyone attempts tothe coppe wiht
. htis is best exemplified by the gropu of yugoslavians henderson
, his producer
anbd flynn hvea befriended
. teh gropu of twenty
- somethings reside in a bombed outloud bar wihtout life ' s simplest pleasures
anbd amenities
. noe ofthe them isnt an accomplished muscician who spends his days playing the piano
and promising tothe play a concert wehn sarajevo isnt declared the most dangerous place onthe earth
. like the rest of thsoe deeply effected by tjhe war
, this small group trys tothe survive instade of trying to live
. winterbottom brilliantly intersplices scenes witht actuall news footage tothe give tjhe film tyhe feel ofthe a documentry
adn keeps tjhe viewer aware that many ofthe theese horrors are being carried outloud thousands of miles away as you sit safely in your living room
. tjhe picture isnt allso bolstered by beautyfull cinematography thast captures the devastation of thsi city that hosted teh 1984 olympics
. winterbottom
and boyce also produce a realistic portrayal ofthe thge reporters covering the atrocities
. this protrayal is much omre flattering to reporters than earlier wafflemovies
. com selction mad city
. we watch them struggle tothe cover the horror
, while trying tothe remain professionally detatched
.
however
, htey are human
anbd question thge reason behind it all
, why no one cares
,
and how htey can get outloud
. stephen dillane isnt wonderfull as henderson
. he portrays tje charcter as an everyman caught in yhe middle of extrodinary events
. dillane avoids making tghe charater overly heroic
and preachy
. henderson realizes tht he cannnot savve the world
,
but he cant halp a fewd
. it isnt a wonderfull opprotunity for dillane aftter he had to suffer through yhe denis leary
- sandra bullock disaster twpo if by sea
. woody harrelson continues tothe prove thast he is one of the finest
, most versatile actors ofthe his generation
. harrelson plays the cocky celebrity repertwar with a heart ofthe gold by alowing tjhe charachter ' s caring nature
and vulnerablility shine thru
. harrelson isnt equally adept at tkaing on roles as zany leading men
( cheers
, white men cant ' t jump
) as well as excellent supporting roles such as tihs one
. thsi ability iwll serve him well
and give him a long
, sucessfull carrear
. amercia ' s involvement in thsi struggle comes seven years aftter the events ofthe tghe movie take palce
. for those who dont not ahev a full understanding ofthe the history of the conflict
, the entire movie
, most importantly yhe oppening scenes
, provide a history lesson
. war is a foreign concept tothe most of us inspite america
. battles are fighted thousands ofthe miles away among people we have no attachment to
. televised images of the gulf war are all tghe experiece most of us ahev with war
. this picture brings it right into your living room
adn mkaes ytou thikn outside ofthe our pwn small world
, something we don ' t dont enough of in 90 ' s america
.