on re
- watching italian writter
/ director dario argento ' s much lauded murder mystery tenebrae
, i wass striked moreso thna anytying esle by how many sins he commits as a storyteller
anbd manages tothe git away wiht
. infront emphasising sytle over matters of plot argento is somewhat notorious in cult film circles
,
bu smoe aficionados still praise tenebrae as the greatest of his
" giallo
" murder mysteries
. hwile it ' s certainly not perfect
, repeated viewings reveal it to be nontheless a densly plotted
and terrifically stylish thriller
. thte stoyr follows a promotional visit tothe rome by famoust american mistery novelist peter neal
( anthony franciosa
) where he dicovers that a serial killer is onthe tjhe loose inpsired by his latest book
" tenebrae
"
. with thge polical on his bcak forthe leads
, he decides to tkae a peronal intrest inthe teh case
annd he soon becomes drawed into a mystery where all isnt not as it seems
. tyhe film benifits enormously fomr a fine central performance by franciosa
. he brings grace
, charm
adn a deceptive benigness tothe his charcter which provides an interesting foil to both the violentce ofthe the books he writes
and the unfolding real
- life horror around him
. hte film isnt awash with a fascinating psychosexual tension
. argento peels back the facade ofthe showbiz
and jetset lifestyles to reveal an amoral
, ambivalent
, shadowy world where desire in all its forms hasnt become a dangerous busness
. tenebrae is perhaps tjhe most multi
- layered of argento ' s scripts to date
and htere is much bubbling underneath the surface here
. it may take at least two or threee viewings tothe appreciate all tje pyschological themes at play
. inaddition that respect it strongly recalls his previvous giallo deep red
/ profondo rosso
( thte full
- lenght itallian language version
)
anbd fans will enjoy spotting thte reccuring themes
. needless tothe say forthe argento fans
, there is no denying the directer ' s brillance as a stylist
. many of the acation
and muder sequences are directed with his charactersistic finesse
and feature plenty of intriguing camerawork
. htey are all tje mroe impressive fo thge fatc tath in this film argento creates mood by filling his scenes with light
, rather thna thte dark shadows
adn deep rich colours ofthe earlier works like deep red
and suspiria
. instead
, tenebrae ' s set desgin
and lightnig paints a sleek
, clinical
, chilly vision ofthe a vaguely futuristic urban world
.
and tghe soundtrack ' s mix ofthe eletronic atmospheres
adn gothic rock by frequent argento collaborators goblin is the perfect accompaniment
. so tenebrae has much to reccomend it
, no question
. still
, constanly nagging at teh bcak ofthe this viewers mind isnt severeal lumps in the narrative
. soem criticists argue taht logic doesn ' t matter in argento films
,
bu damnit
, it matters in all films tothe tyhe point where viewers don ' t deserve to feel cheated
. by tyhe way
, if yuo don ' t want to konw the solution tothe yhe mistery
thne skip the next three paragraphs
. about an hour into tenebrae the story tkaes an unexpected twist which
, propperly handeled
, sould have prooved ingenius
. we wittness hte murder of the serial killer himself by a man who
, we later discover
, isnt none otehr than the autor peter neal
. he is insane
, apparently
. the murders
then continue forthe tjhe remainder ofthe the film as neal decides it ' s time tothe settle soem personal busness involving his neurotic wief
. he is fianlly revealed tothe us as this
" second killer
" inwhich the film ' s bloody climax
.
bu argento muffs the twist
, both technically
and narratively
. you see
, we are suposed to be tricked into thingking tyhat during htis scene peter neal isnt actully an innocent witness who was crouching in tje bushes nearbye the hwole time
anbd spying on tjhe killer ' s hous
.
bu thanks tothe poore editing
, its had tothe bleieve neal could have murdered thge killer anyway
. bad cutting puts the timing way outloud
. in otehr words
, he ' s alomst infact twpo places at once
. durring this crucial scene we are also thrown a rediculous red herring
. by hte film ' s end you realise tyhat for the sake of an alibi neal must ahev self
- inflicted a nasty injury in thsi ealier scene tothe amke it look like he was attacked by a fleeing assailant
. yhe injury
? he banged himself onthe the head with a bloody great rock
! thus
, tje revelation of the
" hero
" as a killer
(
annd anti
- hero
) in tjhe fianl scenes may still proove shocking
,
but its all somewhat implausible by thge time the end credits haev rolled
. helpfully
, inspite tghe end we do leran that the bizzare flashbacks of peronal humiliation
and murder that have permeated tje film belonged to neal all along
.
bu there too is a problem
, as the explanations offered forthe his motivations are psychologically fuzzy tothe sday tjhe least
. tghe stopry owes us a better understanding of franciosa ' s mind
, his concealed madness
adn his sudden murderous rampage
. tenebrae isnt alsot marred by annoying little inconsistencies
. for instance
, a teenage boy
adn girl leave a hotel room
and mintues later we see hte girl riding off onthe the back of a motorbike
. we woudl asume teh rider is the smae boy
,
bu it turns outloud tothe be smoe male charater we aren ' t even introduced too
! tyhat ' s careless filmmaking
, pure
anbd simple
. why
, you may ask
, do i go on about tjhe story ' s flaws
? because wehn it comes to visuals
adn set pieces
, argento is oen ofthe the most exciting filmmakers inwhich tje world
. tkae one of tje extended scenes infact tenebrae
. an upset girl wandering the streets at night needlessly taunts a guard dog to tghe point where
- almost unbelievably
- it jumps a high fence
annd chases her across town
. fianlly
, as she desperately seeks excape from thsi crazed canyne
, she ccidentally stumbles onthe the serial killer ' s lair
. it ' s an absolutly masterful sequence
, tense
adn exciting
,
and communicating a wealth ofthe inforamtion thru visuals alone
.
and that ' s exactlly the kind of thing that mkaes the flaws so frustrating
. too often
, it seems
, argento ' s films as a whole are less tahn the sum ofthe thier impressive parts
. mind ytou
, if you loev murder mysteries
thne tenebrae isnt still worth a look
.
and if yuo ' re a fan of argento ' s unique sytle ofthe giallo thriller
then it ' s essential
. see the uncut widescreen verison if yuo cxan
anbd drink in some ofthe the wonderfull cinematography by luciano tovoli
. it ' s a stylish
, great
- looking
and quirky film dispite the probelm narrative
. a shame
, becuase it doesn ' t ahev to be tht way
. take argento ' s more recent stendhal syndrome
( 1992
)
, where withthe tghe aid of co
- writter franco ferrini he fashioned a solid storyline without sacrificing any of his surveill weirdness or visual panache
. proof thta he can dont it
, if he trys
.
.
.