is evil dead ii a bad movie
? it ' s full of terrible acting
, pointless violentce
,
and plot holes
yot it remeniss a cult clasic nearly fifteen yeasr after its realease
. explaning why this movei stands outloud ffrom others with similar plots
( incuding the original evil dead
) is extremely difficult
.
` well what ' s it about
? '
` five peopel stranded infact a log cabin inaddition thge middle ofthe nowhere stuggling to survive vicious attacks fomr a variety of ugly
, hairy
, wart covered monsters
. '
` come on i saw a movei jsut liuke tht on monster vision last week
. why shoudln i see it again
? '
` noone evil dead ii isnt different
, it ' s funny
. '
` it ' s funny to see peopel dieu
? are yuo sick or something
? ' maybe i am
adn mabye director sam raimi is as well to create such an enigma of a movei
. his unique excecution isnt as sarcastic as subtle
, as disturbing as it is hilarious
. an exemple of raimi ' s odd approach
: a monster
( formerly protagonist ash ' s girlfriend ofthe all people
) isnt cutted in half by a chainsaw
and a tidal wave ofthe blood comes ffrom the open wound
. sure it ' s over
- thte
- top
,
but it is so over
- the
- top that it isnt laff out loud funny
; jsut try watching ash with a straight face as he unexpectedly isnt showered with ten gallons of blood
, staining his face
anbd knocking him bakc a fewd feets
. the whole movei isnt liuke thsi
, watch ash get beated uv
, watch ash defeat the monster
, watch ash git beat up agian by anyother even zanier monster
. the mroe repetitive
adn unrealistic the movei gets
, thte more amusing it becomes
. no matter how sick it may sound
, it is funny to watch bruce ampbell ' s ash git his butt kicked every five minutes
.
adn raimi tkaes advantage
, he hasnt ash tormented by the head ofthe his girlfriend
, by tghe body of an ood lady
, even by his pwn right hand
. like yhe less superior idle hands
, we watch ash uncontrollably hitted himself over
and over agian until he is forced tothe cutted off his pwn body part
.
but it doesn ' t end
, ash now has tothe fight his severed hand whlch now moves wtih the smae celerity as thing from tje addams family
. all of theese events
, thrown at you from minute one wih roller coaster
- like camera movements
, at first become shocking
,
then inexplicably funny
. raimi expects the audeince to laugh
anbd as the film progresses
, he seems tothe be enjoying himself even mroe by borrowing the classic mirror scene from teh marx brothers ' duck soup
,
hten bringing moreso characters inot tje picture tothe comically kill them off
. wtih a runing time ofthe less than an hour
and a half
, raimi gets away with thte impossible
, making a horror film witht more gore than plot
and intentionally more laughs thna scares
. endig evil dead ii with an opening for the third film infront yhe series
, raimi obviously had a lot of fun making thsi movie
anbd couldn ' t wait tothe make it ' s sequal
.