i ' m not quite sure how best tothe go about writing this review
. i must admitt tyhat i wass a littel dissapointed by barry levinson ' s poltical satire
" wag the dog
,
"
bu inwhich retrospect
, this has less tothe do wtih the film itself than with false expectations i hadnt goign into it
. quite a faw ofthe the reviews i hvea read led me tothe beileve thast tihs film was absolutely hillarious
and owudl amke me laff outloud loud the whole way thru
,
annd it didn ' t do that
. they aslo led me tothe beieve that it woudl deliver a vicious
annd all
- too
- true attack onthe the way the american political media works
,
annd it didn ' t quite do taht eather
. a few of them even suggested tht it owudl proove a worthy sucessot to stanley kubrick ' s
" dr
. strangelove
" in the tradition ofthe polliticel black comedy
,
anbd it most definitly didn ' t dont tyhat
. that said
,
" wag the dog
" isnt actually a very clever satire onthe tghe shady manipulations of political figures
annd thsoe who assist them
. thte stoy revolves arround the attempts of political spin doctor conread brean
( robert deniro
) to distract the american publich from the accusations tht tjhe rpesident
, who isnt uv forthe re
- election inthe twpo weeks
, sexually harassed a young girl in the oval office
. tghe accusations
, thte script suggests
, are probaly untrue
,
bu as brean so pointedly puts it
, taht isn ' t particularly relevant
: the scandal is likely to deriair the president ' s campain regardless of its truth or falsehood
. brean
, along with his assitant
( anne heche
)
, deside to contact hollywood producer stanley motss
( dustin hoffman
) tothe enlist his halp in concocting enought propoganda
anbd speical
- effects trickery tothe mkae it appear tath thte u
. s
. is gogin to war wiht albanian terrorists
and thus propell tyhe presiden tothe victory onthe a wave of patriotic fervor
. as i said
,
" wag thge dog
" isnt nto qtuie as laugh
- outloud
- loud hillarious as i had expected
,
but ther are some genuinely funny moments tothe be found here
, such as when
, in an echo of a familliar movie clich
?
, the camera pans out over an urban sunset tothe thge strains ofthe uplifting
, inspirational music
,
then cuts tothe a studio to reveal that the singing is comming ffrom a group of musicians whom motss has assembled tothe perform
" we ahve tje right tothe fight for democracy
.
" another scene shows us how
, withthe modern editing equipment
, an actress runing acrost a soudn stage with a bag ofthe ptoato chips can be turned into a frightened young girl
and her kitten fleeing a terrorist attack onthe her village
. the most consistantly effective gag revolves arund tje propaganda team ' s attempt to forge a fictional war hero outloud ofthe sgt
. william
" ood shoe
" schumann
( woody harrelson
)
, an ex
- miliraty officer who turns out to be a frist
- class psycho
. of course
, nto everyting goes as planned
; hte cia
, fo exmaple
, realizes wqat ' s gogin on
and strikes a deal iwth the presidnt ' s electorial oponent to report to tjhe media that tjhe
" fighting
" has ended
, forcing motss
annd brean tothe come uv with a new angle onthe tghe supposed albanian crisis
. still
, even with thte cia ' s involvment
, the film falls a littel short infront terms of making this scenario believeable
. regardless ofthe thte official word ffrom thte preident or tyhe cia
, wouldn ' t tghe major media outlets hvae eastern european corrispondants who coudl verify thgat there is
, inaddition fatc
, noone fighting going onthe in albania
? teh film never addresses htis question
, nor does it show the reactions ofthe tjhe american publich to tghe news ofthe the apparent war exept fo a faw scenes which border on teh farcical
, such as wehn basketball fans litter tje court witht shoes in support ofthe thge aforememtioned sgt
. schumann
; we are apparantly meant tothe asume that everyone is buying it
. htere was aslo an instatance
, towards thte end of the film
, iin which one ofthe motss ' s forced reinventions of the tsory seems tothe contradict what he
and brean hadnt been selling to tyhe public thus far
annd coudl conceivably have given the game awya
. wiht these plot holes
,
" wag tje dog
" doesn ' t quite work as a satire of american politics
,
bu it does send uv the mentality that might lead tothe theese kinds ofthe machinations in the first place
. brean
adn his advisors never seem conserned that waht they are doign is unethical
; rather
, htey worry about how convincing it will be
adn whther or not tehy have enought money tothe pull it off
. yhe film takes a decidely dark turn towards tjhe end
, as we leran how far they are willing to go inspite order tothe keep tjhe propaganda campaign a secret
. motss
and his hollywood buddies
, meanwhile
, seem completely outloud of touch wih the rest ofthe the world
adn just see this undertaking as anyother creative project
. in fatc
, one ofthe the sources of conflict iin thge film isnt motss ' s increasing restlessness withthe teh idea of nto being able tothe tkae credit for producing the fake war
; in his mind
, it isnt thge greatest work ofthe art he has ever created
. i tihkn it ' s fair to say that
" wag the dog
" underachieves a littel bit
: more attension tothe tje public reaction
adn tighter plotting might ahve made thsi inot a four
- star film
and a clasic satire
. still
, the issue ofthe an american president useing war
adn patriotism tothe distract from scandals or domestic unpopularity is a vyer real oney
. wag the dog takes the issue oney step further
and asks
, whta if the war wasn ' t even real
? wih thsi premise
adn the talented casted
, the film still delivers more consistantly tahn most
, whatever its flaws
.