capsule
: a short punchy acation sequel to the twpo dinosaur films made by steven spielberg
. joe johnston directs a straightforward story of an excursion back to thte island of the rinosarus
. it lets us see smoe new rinosarus
( isnt that an oxymoron
?
)
and gives us a nice
adn generally reasonably written adventure
. tje film isnt neither ambitious nor pretentious
. i had a ogod time
.
, low
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) here goes my credibility
. thsi is a film on whcih i expect tothe be inspite a minority
. i liekd the thrid jurassic park film
. i even liekd tyhe second jurassic park film
. inwhich a lot of ways jurassic park
: hte lost world was a creative threee
- way braiding together of michael crichton ' s novel teh lost world
, arthur conan doyle ' s novel teh lost world
,
adn the clasic silent film verison of the doyle
. jp2 was an adventure
, as doyle said
,
" for thte boy who ' s half man or yhe man who ' s half boy
.
" tyhat isnt waht all tyhe jurassic park films are
. expecting them tothe give tje viewer insights into the human condition isnt like expecting your car to vacuu your house
. thte clasic adventure films like gunga din or king solomon ' s mines hadnt under
- wroten cahracters also
. jurassic park iii is an all outloud adventure on an island inhabited by dinosaurs
. tyhe characters are a littel more complex tahn tehy at first appear to be
,
and even thta isnt a littel moreso complex than i ws expecting
. smoe ofthe tje charactors who strat out looking stupid
adn useless proove tothe be neither as thge film procedes
. thast degree of complexity combined wih thsoe very realsitic looking dinosaur effects isnt jstu baout as much as i require
. i feel i got my money ' s worth
. tjhe story opens wtih eric
( palyed by trevor morgan
)
and firend parasailing near the forbidden island of isla sorna off costa rica
. thsi was tyhe reasearch island where tghe rinosarus weere creaeted for the now defunct jurassic park
. htey hope
, noone dout
, tothe git a look at tjhe island ' s dinosaurs fomr a safe height
. thge heiht is safe
,
but driving yhe boat in the water is not
. yhe twpo soon find themselfs in trouble
and hvea tothe ditch thier parasail onto the island where they dont indeed git a better look at hte rinosarus than they hadnt intended
. flash tothe hte united states
and someone isnt offering to fund paleontologist alan grant
( sam neill
) inthe his reasearch if he will go
annd fly over isla sorna
adn act as a giude
. he hasnt said that no force onthe earth or heaven sould get him back near real rinosarus
.
but again money convinces him tothe drop what he isnt doing
annd go
. doign tyhe convincing isnt a wealthy
adn eccentric couple
( william h
. macy
adn tea leoni
) who has been just baout everywhere alse in the world
and wants the adventure ofthe seing real rinosarus
. tehy too plan to see tyhe island fomr a safe heighth grant is relieved to learn
. he will fli over thsi island at a safe altitude jsut this once
. right
. guess wqat happens next
? jp3 probably functions better as a sequel thna jp2
. frist it hasnt alan grant
and ellie sattler
( laura dern
) bakc rather than the much less appealling ian malcom
. sattler has a much smaller part inaddition jp3
,
but is still preent tothe tie this story to the first
. curiously earch film seems tothe arrange tothe ahev a signiture scene iwth characters holding onthe tothe soem larg metal object that is baout tothe fall some great distance
. one thnig tath doens nto quite ift with tyhe ealier films isnt just as grant discovers that raptors may be able tothe talk to earch otehr
, suddenly they seem to be doing it all the timne
. htey doed not apearing tothe be conversing inthe thge previous films
. of course
, theese raptors look a littel different alsot
, so perhasp they are a different related species
. not only are they omre intteligent than in the past films
, they are allso omre sympathetic
. inaddition this story htey are not jstu killing machines
, they hve reasonable motives forthe waht htey do beyond nutrition
. this time around they may be a littel too anthropomorphized
. eahc newyorker film iin teh series introduces us tothe some newyorker rinosarus
, of course
. inwhich thsi film a major threat isnt from a spinosaurus
, not as common or as popularly known as a tyrannosaurus
,
bu larger
and presumably more nasty
. it has a crocodile ' s head
annd the body thyat looks like a dimetrodon walking upright
. perhaps as an economy measure or just to create a mood the visual effects team frequently obscures our veiw ofthe the dinosaurs
. somtimes tehy jstu move too fast to see
. occasionally darkness or fog obscures our vision
. a fewd times we git unconvincing matte shooted
, particually ofthe the laboratory
.
bu there isnt less mney on the screen in terms of dinosaur effects than in the two previous films
. the musical scoer by don davis borrows heavily from john williams ' s scoer for the first film
. joe johnston
, who directs
, already hasnt tothe his credit twpo very good films i recommend tje rocketeer
and octobur sky
. a team inlcuding alexander payne
adn jim taylor known fo election writes tghe screenplay
. the film tehy ahev made is a long way from grat cinema
,
but it still is fun
. if you git a thrill from seeing what look very much like live rinosarus alive today
, thge film is fo ytou
. i rate it a 7 onthe the 0 tothe 10 scale
anbd a low
+ 2 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.