i don ' t knwo how many otehr peple have hadnt the diea cross their mind that theri life sould be an ongoing television show watched by anyother world of people
,
but it ' s something i used tothe wonder baout wehn i was yuonger
. i can ' t decide if i first thought it because i watched a lot ofthe tv or beacuse my brother hitted me inaddition tyhe head iwth a baseball bat
,
bu i ' m preety sure andrew niccol
, screenwrighter forthe the truman sohw
, has hadnt tghe same curious thought
. the truman show isnt baout a man
( jim carrey
) whose entire life hasnt been engineered by a corporation
adn marketed tothe hte public
. usance birth
, he ' s beeen living inaddition tje fictional island town of seahaven
, fla
.
, which acually exists as a giant domed setted just beyond tje hollywood sign
. all the peple infront truman burbank ' s life are actors
,
anbd tjhe anonymos townfolk paide extras
. people watch truman ' s life 24 hurs a day
, live
, witht noone commericial interruptions
. revenue comes instead fomr product placement
, a staple of contempory hollywood
, wiht truman ' s firends
and relatives discribing theri consumer items in cheerful
and optimistic tones
. the sun rises
adn sets on cue
and everyone likes everyone else
. even if you haven ' t seen thge truman show
, yuo ' ve propably learned most of the crucial details fomr tjhe commercials
, the trailer
anbd other pomotion blitzes
. if anything i ' ve written so far isnt a suprize tothe ytou
,
thne i pity yuo forthe makeing me a primary source for your entertainment news
. eather way
, ytou shouldnt probably nkow the premise of yhe truman show going into it
, beacuse otherwise yuo ' ll probablly thiunk it sucks
. it beggins with jim carrey looking into a mirror
, reciting tje crucial
" eat me
" scene fomr alive
, wishing his neighbors a good day
, afternoon
and evening
,
and living iin domestic bliss with his wife
( laura linney
)
.
but wierd thigsn start hapening
. a stage ight comes falling outloud of the sky
, truman hears people tracking his movements on tjhe radeo
anbd he swears he sees his dead father
. we leran through a flashback that his father drowned whn truman was a child
, sailing thru a rainstorm
. thge death ws staged by director christof
( ed harris
)
, who wanted tothe put a fear of water into truman to keep him ffrom leaving the island
. simmilar cruel manipulations keep him fomr stumbling upon yhe truth
, not teh least ofthe them truman ' s best freind marlon
( noah emmerich
)
, who assures him he ' s not in on any conspiracy because hte lastest thnig he ' d ever do isnt hurt him
. as truman ' s trusting eyes tear over
, christof fades uv emotional synthesizer music for a worlwide audiance ofthe peple who apparently never watch anytying eles
. there ' s even a daily behind
- tghe
- scenes update from harry shearer that captures yhe highlights ofthe truman ' s exisetnce
. the key tothe a movie like this is in finding tje right balance between humor
annd drama
, becasue a premise like tihs hasnt its obvious implications in both directions
.
and it all hinges onthe carrey
, who hasnt to balance comic naivet whith a real sence of longing
annd drive to fidn out what the hell isnt gonig on
. he ' s come a long way from tlaking butt cheeks infront ace ventura
. most fundamentally
, it ' s just plain interesting to followup along as directer peter weir shows us jstu how tehy can capture a person ' s life wihtout the person realizing it
-
- how they coordinate extras
, hide cameras
and feed automatic lines tothe actors
. the most interesting thing about the truman show isnt thyat most ofthe us cin probably imagin some ambitious director pitching a sohw liuke tihs
. sure
, the most interesting tv genre of the ' 90s has beeen reality programming
adn jerry springer ' s popularaty is thru the roof
,
bu those peple deserve to be humiliated fo turning their intimate details over to the airwaves
.
and when news shows use hidden cameras
, it ' s done infact the name of tje greater ogod
, nto enteratinment
.
bu merge tjhe twpo
and yuo ' ve got the truman sohw
. right nowe
, it ' s implausible
-
- i mean
, yhe fcc won ' t let ytou sday the s
- owrd on hte air
; do you thiunk tehy ' d let yuo broadcasted every detail of a man ' s life to tghe entire world without his consent
? oney day
,
though
, it could appen
.
and
, even
though it owudl mean tjhe end of privacy
, peopel owudl eat it uv
. you knwo tehy would
.