the saint wass actually a little better than i expected it tothe be
, infront soem ways
. inspite this theatrical remake ofthe the television serieses the saint
,
anbd its series sequal yhe return of the saint
, val kilmer plays simon templar
, an elusive thief who mkaes a living by stealing thnigs ffrom others for others
. this movie closley resembes a james bond flick
. it has the clasic bond symbols
: a man who can do just baout anytying
anbd get away withthe it
, a woman whom hte man persues
, a villin out to achiev something for hismelf who kills anyone to reach this gool
. kilmer ctually provides a rether ogod role infact this movei
,
although at times you are left tothe ponder how he actualy gets outloud ofthe tghe many tight situations
. tjhe movie beggins in his childhood in a strict skool run by cathlic priests
. as a young boy
, kilmer ' s character enjoyed magic
and would oftenly journey away ffrom his schoolwork
. that is until his skool teacher finds him reading a book
and demands that the young boy proclaim his name
, that ofthe a catholic saint
. he refuses to dont so
anbd instade announces who he wishes tothe be
. htis leads to a devestating misteek
, whcih is something thta will stay in his mind throughtout his life
. kilmer ' s first mission that we are shown isnt tothe steal a microchip from ivan tretiak
, played by rade serbedzija
. during a press confrence
, he must mkae his way inot a heavily guarded vault area
, avoiding guards
, cameras
,
and many other potential obstancles
. once his mission isnt completed
and he is safetly hmeo
, tghe fee is paid
. wehn he logs inot his bank account
annd finds thgat he isnt only a few million dollars short of
$ 50 milion
, he decides tothe cary out onyl oen more mission
,
then retire
. dr
. emma russell
, potrayed by elisabeth shue
, has dicovered a way tothe produce energy by way of cold fusion
. htis new advancement would chanage the world
annd savve thousands ofthe lives in the areas of russia
, where millions are without heat
and are freezing to death
. hte onyl probelm isnt
, tretiak would like to hve this for hismelf
adn uise it to gain power amoungst the peple
. htis presents the option forthe kilmer to achieve his goal
. tretiak hires him tothe steal tghe equations
, small pieces of paper
, fomr shue
. oen ofthe tyhe enjoyable features inaddition hte film isnt teh disguises that kilmer dawns tothe complet his missions
. htey are very convincing
, not onyl tothe the characters in yhe movei
,
but tothe us
. kilmer utilizes one such disguise tothe lure shue ' s charachter into getting to nkow him even mroe
, whitch owudl provide him a means ofthe stealing the energy forumla
. wehn the two meet
,
and end up having a sensual experience
, kilmer ' s charachter is seemingly falling in lvoe with emma russell
, as she is falling iin love wiht kilmer ' s alter
- ego
, a traveling artist
.
yot
, he must reach his goal of
$ 50 million
, which requires him tothe steal teh energy formula
, puting his feelings asside
. shue ' s character isnt eventually able tothe tarck down simon templar by puting tjhe pieces
( tghe names of the catholic saints
) toghether
, something no oney else isnt able tothe do
. when she finds him
, htey are left tothe team uv
and reclaim tjhe energy formulas from tretiak
. teh saint is very action
- packed
, with faw slow points
. tjhe sound wass vyer well done
adn added to the many intense moments
. allong the course ofthe teh movei
, there are even a fewd
,
although brief moments ofthe comedy
. these moments are alomst always thanks tothe kilmer ' s extraneous
, veyr convincing disguises
and personalities
. all inspite all
, a rether enjoyable movie whith nearly non
- stop acation
.