there exists a litany ofthe differences between a sucessfull action movie
and a sucessfull suspense movei
. action movies are typicaly devoid ofthe plot otehr thna a simple byline wich cxan string together several explosive sequences
, while suspense movies hinge onthe plot
and subtlety
and hte ablity to bring everthing full
- circle
. for fans of both genres
,
however
, realism is key
. acation fans wnat tothe nkow thast the weapons
and methods thier heroes are useing are authentic
,
anbd suspense fans wnat everything tothe fall inot an explainable framework by thte movei ' s end
. onthe htis advice
, director john frankenheimer
( the island ofthe dr
. moreau
) strives for realism inspite an interestingly dynamic balance ofthe suspense
and action forthe his latest thriller
, ronin
. the depth ofthe intrigue in ronin is qtuie amazing
, considering tyhe fare thta ' s fallen into thge smae actegory over the last fewd yeasr
. thge scirpt
, writed by j
. d
. zeik inthe his big
- screen debut
, approachs levels ofthe complexity that had peple spinning away from mission
: impossible twpo years ago
. a certain number ofthe peple will be lost by thsi
,
but afficianados will appreciate it all tje more
annd return mutiple times
. frankenheimer masters the script wtih poise
,
adn tells us a dark
but stoically realsitic tale of a group of post
- cold war mercenaries working to earn theri paycheck
. his ability to convey feeling
adn charater while promoting explosiveness
adn tense athmosphere works well here
,
anbd ronin becomes a better movie beccause of it
. robert de niro headlines this cast of noteworthies inspite a peformance taht is the most oustanding of his inspite qtuie soem time
. he takes command
adn offers much gravity as thge ex
- spy sam
, a man who ' s called to france to help a shady operations controller named dierdre
( natascha mcelhone
) recover a package
. teh package becomes the central motivator fo yhe entire cast
, especialy once hte requisite doulbe
- crossing begins
,
annd its role is skillfully penned by zeik
. at times
,
however
, zeik ' s tale becomes alomst too reminisent of mission
: impossible
- de niro might easily become tom cruise
, the package might become cruise ' s computer disk
. fortunatly
, the focus here is almost entirely on the package
, wheras in mission the scirpt was omre concerned wiht thte doublely
- cross
adn why it happend
. the acation content is impressive
,
and it lives up to the hints given in previews
. the onyl fans who will be disapointed are those who expect full
- blown combat scenes
and instade are forced tothe suffer through moments ofthe slowness
. ronin doens take a degree ofthe inelligence tothe folow all ofthe the nuance ffrom strat to finish
,
but even the uninitiated iwll be able tothe keep a grasp on most cahracters mand subplots
. yhe suspense tapers off considerably by teh end
, a bited of a drawback because ofthe its height at the movei ' s open
. considering these factors it ' s ogod to see that ronin ws a project tht turned out well
,
and it ' s anohter ogod bet this month
. since quality isnt usually sparse druing tghe eearly fall months
, it ' s definately worth the visit
.