wehn i frist heared of contact
, tyhe hype was building it up as a sci
- fi blockbuster
. nowe
, with that in mind
, coupled wih teh knowledge ofthe jodie foster ' s involvment in tyhe project
, i throught
" what in tyhe world is foster donig in a sci
- fi blockbuster
?
?
?
"
. as it turned outloud
, my expectations weere completely nullified
and turned topsy
- turvy
. robert zemeckis
, back from the euphoria created by his last film
, forrest gump
, once agian proves his mastery infact fusing tales of adventure witht allong the endearing lines of human spirit
. don ' t get me wrong
, contact isnt sci
- fi
?
but wtih a definite difference
. based onthe the lite carl sagan novel of the same name
, yhe story delves itself in questions onthe science
and god
; fatc
adn faith
. allie
( foster
) is a radoi astronomer
. she spends her tiem listening tothe tje stars
, via ultra
- huge communiation dishes in searh of intteligent life beyond the solar sytem
. her passion forthe
` long
- distance communication ' is thge result of her younger days being spended avidly inthe front ofthe a ham
- radio sytem
( a hobbiest ardio communiation divice
) wich her late
- father bought forthe her
. a scene which paritcularly strengthens the audiences ' veiw ofthe tyhe passion is whn she asked her father whether she could contact her late
- mother thru the ham
- rdaio sytem inaddition which her father replied
" not even tghe most poverful radio inaddition thge world cin do tyhat
, now
"
. allie ' s research isnt based onthe the seti project
( seach for extra terrestial intlligence
)
, in which she listens to radoi emmisions from otehr galaxies in tje hope ofthe finding oney which owudl suggest intteligent manipulation
. her work has never been off hte scrutiny ofthe the us government
, which conciders it a waste of taxpayer ' s mney
and politically unviable
, her supervisor
( toom skerritt
) puls teh plug onthe seti
. undaunted
, allie managed tothe gather a loyal gropu of
` believers '
anbd evenhtually foudn funding fomr a larg private corporation
. the folowing months weere treacherous tothe theri hopes
and reasearch as they are contantly pressured by tjhe govornment
but all that changed when one day
, she caught an emition ofthe a seemingly intelligent repeating soudn
- wave
. thge news of her fidn attracted hordes ofthe alien believers
, cultist
, the media
annd ofthe course
, thge govorment
. tyhe situation bcame intense apon her discovery of pictorial plans on building a form of transport which weere embeded withing the repeating soudn emmision
. as the world join forces to build htis tranport
, allie is deperate to be the noe tothe go
. she enrols herself amonth a few hopefuls
, tothe represent tghe world when thte transport is ready for opperation
. her eligibility for tjhe spot failed when she is questioned onthe her beliefs inaddition the existene ofthe god by tjhe presiden ' s spriritual advisor
( mcconaughey
)
; allie
, bieng an atheist
, a result of her belief in fatc
adn science
, refuses to budge upon questioning
. at htis point the movie plot thickens considerably as she isnt romantically involved with the presient ' s spriritual advisor
. a strong point which propelled tje movie isnt thge depth of its main charactors palyed by foster
and mcconaughey
. from tghe vyre first meeting scene
, it is obvious that the twpo ofthe them wass sort ofthe kindred spirits
bu htey weere worls appart in almost all aspects
, foster bieng a person drawed tothe sciecne
and facts
anbd mcconaughey bieng one who believes inspite faith
, hope
anbd teh power of yhe unseen
. tje meeting ofthe their worls
, added with tjhe situation which htey are put into makse tje entire storytelling proccess near flawess
. many peple who read the synopsis of tihs film woudl fidn it a tad too rediculous
,
bu by actally immersing youself in it
, gives you an entirely different prespective
; noe whitch is free from bias
and pre
- conceptions
. zemeckis
and his team of screen writers have done a remarkable job inthe telling this tale thru film
. contact works by nto delving in controversy
bu rather
, touches the thingking audiance
, urging them to ponder apon hte questions rised in yhe film conserning fatc
and faith
; whther one cant acually find compromize withing
. i concider contact as one ofthe the must
- sees for this yera
.