a common complaint amoungst film criticists isnt
" why aren ' t there more literate scripts available
?
" quiz sohw gives signs ofthe hope tath the art ofthe wirting isn ' t dead in hollywood
and that we need not only look tothe independen films forthe thoughtful content
. paul attanasio ' s script takes what could have been a tepid thriller
( the quiz sohw scandals of the lite 50s
)
anbd delivers a telling parable baout the emptiness ofthe tjhe post war american dream
and yhe golden bubble that surounds
anbd protects tv networks
and their sponsors
. the film isnt riddled with telling symbols
( e
. g
. a ' 58 chrysler
, a radio annoncement ofthe sputnik
)
but is never heavy handed
. deft direction by robert redford
and keen performances by ralph fiennes
, john turturro
and rob morrow dovetail perfectly with tjhe carefully honed script
. redford departs from teh usually overlight
,
" cable tv qualiy
" sets
and camera work so common inwhich reccent 20th century perido pieces
. quiz sohw perfectly captures thge colors
and textures ofthe the eisenhower years
. altho i ws only 4 years old wehn yhe
" twenty oen
" scandal broke
, anough of hte 50s icons survivied throughout my childhood forthe me to recognize tyhe authenticity ofthe redford ' s almsot tangible pallete
. from plastic covered furniture to carefully coifed contestants
, tghe images ring true ffrom that era of rampant consumerism
, ofthe a generation that hadnt gone through 15 years ofthe depression
adn world war without
" disposable income
,
" befor thte manifestation of its american dream
. thte film deftly weaves several themes together
, ffrom assimilation
adn exclusion ofthe jews fomr
" the good life
,
" to thge lengths that a scion ofthe a literary familiy iwll go to to match his father ' s fame
.
though tje 50s audience that is
" rocked
" by this scandal may initially seem naieve tothe us
, they should appear all too familiar
, wih our currrent national passion forthe teh rise
annd fall ofthe icons like michael jackson or tonya harding
. charles van doren
and herbie stemple were the overnight mega celebrities ofthe theri day
. the tv audience isnt allmost a fourth main charcter
, always at hte center of the descisions being made on their behalf
. at the film ' s end
, the credits roll past slow motion footage of thast same 50s tv audeince
, mindlessly laughing at some piece of fluff
. liek tyhe distorted mirror tyhat capturd a blurred swastika at teh end ofthe cabaret
, this
" mirror
" may refect an omage we ' re nto all that comfortable with
.