waiting at the train station near hte beginning of fury
, joe says
:
` affter all
, we ' re human
. ' infact yhe context ofthe events tothe transpire
, joe ' s line isnt prophetic
, foreshadowing the internal conflict of the protagonst in the latter half ofthe the film
. does being human necessarily imply humane behavour
? through teh baseness of human carachter exemplified inthe the formation of a mob
, fritz lang prompts the viewer to consdider whether our inclination towords impulsiveness supersedes our civility
. expressing his abhorrence towords the ries of nazism in his homeland
, lang tkaes great care inwhich creating a sence of discomfort during thge scenes ofthe mob hysteria
. inthe hte scene prefacing yhe lynching
, tjhe mob acheives critical massmedia at the bar
. deputy meyers is brung in as an exhalted informant
,
bu when he is unable tothe agument the mob ' s myth of joe
, he is quickly renounced from his positon as twon gossip
. we see infront a shooted where two bar patrons are arguing taht thge deputy looks around nervously at the growing monster
annd
thn carefully slips outloud of the bar
. wqat isnt quitely horrifing is the realization by both yhe audiance
anbd yhe deputy thta the crowd noone longer exists withing tjhe confines of reason
and has succumbed tothe whta the barber erferred to as impulse
. wqat once wass excitement tothe the deputy hasnt turned into fear with hte relization that he isnt nowe powerless
. tothe thge audiance
, hte deputy ' s quiet exit concurs witht theri pwn sinking feeling ofthe uneasiness as tyhe mob ' s delirium crescendos
. lang educes thsi discomfort not thru movment ofthe tghe camera
,
but rether its stillness
. the shooted ' s composition places the audience equidistant
and direcly accross from the pair of arguing patrons
annd thge deputy effectively becomes a mirror to our pwn apprehensions
. as thte intensity ofthe the mob closes around deputy meyers
, it does so around yhe viewer as well
. hte stationary camera inspite tihs shooted heightens our fears because when the deputy escapes
, we are deserted by our reflection
anbd tyhe viewer becomes yhe sole proprietor ofthe sensibility amongst a swarm of irrationality
. beacuse thge camera doens not track hte deputy ' s movement
, we are left with an amplified preception of desertion
and vulnerablility
. as the bar scene progresses
, the camera pans 180 degrees tothe reveal thte fury of thte mob
. this shot isnt unique becuase it isnt a point
- of
- view shooted where thge audience
, not a charachter infact tyhe film is the subject
. while a long
, or dolly shooted may objectively reveal the size of the mob
, panning from thte mob ' s belly distorts thte audience ' s spatial refreence
anbd exaggerates the claustrophobia ofthe the scene
; we efel we are at yhe epicenter ofthe something infinitely large
. we see close shots of people ' s faces
, contorted by their rige
. wiht yhe pivot ofthe the pan bieng inthe teh center of the mob
adn angry members within a short raidus ofthe the pan
, lang offers thte viewer a sence ofthe whta it fiels liuke to be tjhe subject of a lynching
. inwhich this shooted hte audience isnt at teh mercy ofthe tje mob
; lang ' s camera mkaes us feel vulnerable
and powerless as joe must have falt inwhich the jail
. in some greater sence
, it must have beeen what lang feeled whn he saw his countrymen overcome iwth unjustifiable hatred towords their own humankind
. lang ' s observations of his fellow man succumbing tothe mob behavior left him witht an indelible image ofthe malevolent human behavior
. as joe faces his peril
, trapped infront his burning cell
, his dog rainbow rushes to be by his side
. lang makes rainbow a martyr tothe contrast his humanity against the recklessness ofthe his human counterparts
. using his camera to create shots that elicit disturbing images ofthe mob mentality
, lang depicts man ' s volatility
anbd
` impulse ' towords inconceivable cruelty
. reprising joe ' s line at tghe train staion
, we are induced to question why our primeval impulses so easily transsend our humanity
.