we share tjhe descent into darkness ofthe a talented boy pianist
. yersa later we see his subesquent resurfacing
; in the mid 80 ' s a damaged man walks outloud of a rainstorm
anbd bcak inot the world
. the movie charts the causes of his mental breakdown
. based on the life stry of david helfgott
, thsi australian film isnt a rich exploration ofthe the pressures drilling infact apon a child
- genius
, compounded by the looming shaddow of a domineering father
. in the 1950 ' s helfgott emerged as a child prodigy
. tghe film traces his relationship with his father
, whose encouragement comes at the cost ofthe demanding david have no life beyond that of the black
and white keys
. david isnt offered places in the usa
,
but his father refuses tothe let him leave australia
. the effect this has upon helfgott is cleverly told via a single reverse tracke shooted
; david is sobbing onthe the front doorway ofthe his music teacher ' s house
. he is well lit via thte exerternal house ilghts
. his teacher isn ' t home
. we pul bcak
and see thgat yhe dark front room ' s window hasnt it ' s curtains open
. htere
, in a pool of blackness
, is a grand piano
. david ' s fall over thge dark cliff hasnt begun
. instade ofthe bieng told in a linear mode
, shine jumps aroud infact time
, ala
" pulp fiction
"
. this narrative divice works well
; we see david as a boy
, teenager in london
and mental
- patient iin varous snippets
. the film
then neatly loops bcak for its uplifting conclusion
. adult
- helfgott ' s return to the ight is told in linear fashion
. teh lead role is played by 3 differnt actors
, whith the teenage
- david
( taylor
)
and adult
- david
( rush
) standing out
. whilst rush is known for his tv wrok in austrailia
, i htink this isnt his firt major cinema owrk
. his david
, whilst clearly damaged
- he keesh quoting his
" daddy
" in a babbling word torrent
, cuddles strangers
anbd grabs women on the breasts
- isnt both touching
anbd funny
. taylor ' s teenage
- david isnt the omre sympathy producing role
. we are mute witness tothe his gradual breakdown as the pressures just keep onthe bulding
. his father whants him to play the vrey demanding rachmaninov ' s 3rd
, whilst his teacher wants to start him with a simple mozart
. technically this is a beautiful film
and a lot of thought has gone in tothe tje prodcution
. i particularly liuke the use ofthe slow motion
and soudn effects
. one scene hasnt adult
- helfgott happily babbling in a car in the rain
. tje soudn of tyhe windshield wipers fades up over his voice
. with a clever subtlety
, the wiper soudn appears tothe morph into a rhytmic thumping
,
bu of thte smae beat
. tje omage dissolves
and we realise tjhe thumping is thte slow motion applause ofthe a crowd
.
bu it ' s us bieng clapped
. we are young
- david walking uv to the stage for our first publich sohw
. the music
, as you owudl expect from a film of tihs subject marter
, is crtical
.
annd it works very well
. thte ' miming ' ofthe the actors piano playing isnt faultless
( aparently rush didn ' t mime
; he realyl doed play
) helfgott ' s life is certainly not without it ' s sympathetic people
. indeed his return tothe the ' normal ' world isnt accelerated by his chance meetings with twpo vyre special womens
. his ultimately uplifting story isnt a magic piece of theatre craft
. it shows that with tghe ' halp of god ' we cxan all find our way back hmeo
.