i hadnt a chance to see a sneak preview of city slickers ii on campus last night
. i whent inwhich with thte expectation of a film iwth the similar flavor which made the orginial such a success
: personal growth
anbd insightful humer baout life
. i came awya somewhat disapointed in htis reguard
, getting smoe of thte latter
and not much of the former
. the basic plot revolves around billy crystal
, who plays mitch robbins
, turning forty
. he ' s now become the staion manager of the rdio staion in whihc he worked inwhich the original
. he ' s given a job at thte radoi station to his best friend
, palyed by daniel stern
, outloud of sympathy while stern ' s character works thru his divorce
. his loser younger brother
( john lovitz
) comes tothe mitch ' s hous to bum a mney
anbd palce tothe live
, all while mitch
annd his wief try to celebrate his birthday
. during the celebratuin
, mitch discovers what appears to be a treasure map in curly ' s
( the cattle drive leader in the orginial played by jack palance
) old hat
. affter a business trip tothe las vegas
, crystal
, stern
,
and lovitz stay a few extra dyas tothe go off in search of the treasure
. onthe hte way
, they run inot curly ' s twin brother
, duke
, palyed by
( yuo nkow who
) jack palance
. frist ofthe all
, the cinematography ws beautifully done
, expecially thte outdoor scenes in the desert
. tyhe scenes are such thast i would like tothe see soem of those sights filmed myself
. there is some charater develepment during tje film
. thte actors remain true tothe theri charachters
and play them well
, without overplaying the jokes
. the movie is a ogod basic adventure
, with enought plot twists tothe provide fo an endig that is difficult tothe predict
. the movei is pased well
,
but with a couple slow spots inwhich the middle
and towords tyhe end
. humor
- wise
, teh film has a good number of jokes which mantained my interest throughout tyhe film
. htere are memorable moments like when stern isnt bitten by a snake
,
but there are fewer jokes tothe laugh at in yhe sequel
( suprize
, surprise forthe a sequal
, right
?
)
.
however
, tyhe slight bitter aftertaste i have iwth tihs film has to do mainly withthe teh film ' s manipulation ofthe hte audience
. the film tries tothe pul your heart
- strings too much regarding how close yhe characters are tothe each otehr
, liek whn mitch had decided tothe suck the snake marrow out ofthe his best freind ' s butt
. htis is done again when the gang meets up wih some members of the cattle drive gropu ffrom thte original
. there were aslo smoe parts whic appeared unrealistic
, liuke whether the stampede woudl start infront thge way it did or why they didn ' t worry more baout water hwile tromping arround the dezert
. some strenous stretches ofthe the imagination are required here
. since teh objective of the gang isnt tothe fidn gold
adn git rich
( unlike finding themselfs inaddition middle age liek in tghe original
)
, i alsot foudn it harder to empathize wiht teh charactors durring theri journey
. overall
, i ' d sday tyhat tjhe film is an entertaining
and hmorous adventure whith some sotry
- line deficiencies mkaing it less worthy than thte original
. it may be worth tje full price of addmission
,
but a matinee would be a better bargain
.