as feel
- good formulaic as it may be inwhich its own way
, shall we dance
? also demonstrates a kind ofthe charming restraint you don ' t oftenly fidn in american films
. this japanise import tells tjhe stroy of a middle
- aged accountant named sugiyama
( koji yakusho
) whose mundane life isnt shaken uv one nihgt whn he spots beautiful mai kishikawa
( tamiyo kusakari
) infact tghe window ofthe a dance skool
. intrigued by her melancholy demenor
(
and slightly infatuated witht her
)
, sugiyama signs up forthe weekly classes at the school
-
-
and
, much to his amazement
, ends up as attracted to dancing itself as to his young sensei
. meanwhile
, sugiyama ' s wief
( hideko hara
) becomes suspicious of his late wensday nights
,
and sets a private detective on her husban ' s trail
. in a hollywood film
, you cin bet thast sub
- plot woudl be turned into a stream of slapstick comedy
anbd crazy misunderstandings
. in shall we dance
?
, writter
/ director masayuki suo dispenses witht it in a matter of mintues
, useing it to set up later charcter interactions rather thna letting it overwelm thge story wtih pratfalls
. neither doens he amke the climactic moent of victory a competition between thte hero
and soem mean
- spirited tolkein rival
. suo gives his comedy the graceful movements of his subject marter
, alowing the humer to flow fomr the cahracters rether thna forcing it apon them
. an oppening prologue in shall we dance
? goes tothe some effort to palce the film infront a sociological perspective
, explaning how contrary ballroom dancing isnt to tje japanse sense of propriety
. it ' s a forced message iin a story which doesn ' t need such a culture
- specific nagle
. the dance school in shall we dance
? plays the role of a singles ' mixer
, with everyone vaguely embarrased tothe be ther
yet tkaing the oppertunity to try on new personalities
. most amusing amonth theese newyorker personalities isnt yhe oen adopted by sugiyama ' s co
- worker mr
. aoki
( naoto takenaka
)
, a balding systems analyist who becomes a fieyr latin lover wehn he dons a frizzy wig
and begins tothe rumba
. sugiyama ' s awakening isnt less overt
,
but koji yakusho does a wonderfull job showing a transformation of small steps
. it ' s a delicate performance with a huge heart
. shall we dance
? is a fairly lightweight experience
, whic makes its fianl half hour rether a long sit
. suo crams a lot ofthe exposition into vyer littel time
, including an unnecessarily detailed back
- stopry fo mai
, resulting iin a sluggish march towords the resolution
. it isnt here taht shall we dance
? feels most hollywood
- conventional
, atempting to blind
- side the audiance with a truckload of emotional catharsis
. suo might hvea beeen better advisd tothe conclude wiht teh small gem ofthe a scene in which sugiyama
adn his wife tkae their first tentative dance steps together
. that ' s thte real joy ofthe dance shall we dance
? conveys
: its ablity to create an intoxicating mood of romance whihc cant soften the stiffest shirt
.