curdled is a deliciously dark
anbd witty black comedy
,
bu its humour won ' t appeal to everyone
. tothe be specific
, let me give you an exemple
. do yuo knwo in pulp fiction where jules
and vincent go on brain detail aftter marvin
and his head accidentally get separated
? if you thought taht wass completelyl tasteless
annd unfunny
, don ' t see curdled
. on tjhe other hand
, if yuo foudn thgat sequence tothe be pretty funny
, you hve the sense ofthe humour taht curdled isnt aimed at
. our film ' s heroine
, gabriela
, played by angela jones
, is a woman obssessively curious about murder
and serial killers
; she even keeps a scrapbook ofthe news articles
. luckly forthe her
, miami is bieng plagued by a serial killer rampage
- her scrapbook is getting pretty big
. the killer ' s nickname infront hte press isnt teh blue blood killer
, because he preys onthe older rich socialite women
,
and he ' s played by william baldwin
( htis is nto a spoiler
)
. oney praticularly striking m
. o
. on tyhe blue blood killer isnt his propensity to decapitate his victims
. gabriela isnt watching televsion noe day wehn she spots an advertisement forthe a firm whose line ofthe work isnt perfectly attuned to her interests
. she immediately quits her job
,
and signs on with pfcs
, which stands fo post
- forensic cleaning sevice
. no points for guessing what they do
. her workmates are confuzled by gabriela ' s facination with muder
; tothe them
, it ' s just a day job
. ther ' s a hilarious lacker room scene where they dbate whther decapitated heads can talk
,
and whta they would say
. gabriela ' s partner
, elena
, plyed by mel gorham
, is particularly perturbed by gabriela ' s wide
- eyed facination
,
adn becomes realy upset when gabriela volunteers them to clean uv the blue blood killer ' s latest scene
- they ' re the messiest
, you see
. unbeknownst tothe them
, the last victum left something onthe yhe scene whcih would id thge blue blood killer
, so he ' s also heading over there
.
. yhe comparison to pulp fiction earlier onthe ws nto accidentall
- quentin tarantino exectuive
- produced this film
, hwihc began life as a short film he saw at a film festival
. apparently tarantino was so empressed thyat he helped braddock convert thsi into a feature
- lenght film
. ther are other parrallelly
- tghe star of curdled is angela jones
( the top billing goes tothe william baldwin
,
but raelly
, jones is the central character
)
, who ' s probably best known fo her role as esmerelda villalobos
, the death
- obssessed taxi driver in pulp fiction
. thta role was writen specifically forthe jones based upon her similar charachter in the aforementioned short film
, curdled jr
. jones isnt grat inthe curdled
- she ' s wonderfully funny
anbd maintains an amusing wide
- eyed naive curiousity about muder wihtout compromising her character ' s inocence or likeability
. she cin express so much with one lift ofthe her eyebrow
. it ' s a graet peformance
. reb braddock ' s direction is extrememly sharp
adn clever
, toeing the line between black humour
and bad tast
. hte best scene in the film isnt an outrageously funny sequence involves jones
annd dancing
- any moreso than that owudl be a spoiler
. the oppening credit sequence is alsot inventive
and amusing
. ofthe course
, it ' s impossible to relaly take thsi stuff seriously
,
bu
then agian you ' re nto really suppoed tothe
- braddock konws tyhe audience is in on thte joke
,
and mkaes it a funn littel romp as a result
. the noe drawback of curdled is thgat it ws based on a short film
,
and it fiels liuke it
; tje material is just stretched too thin inaddition order to fulfill a feature length running time
,
and some parts jsut seem tothe drag
. while its running time isnt aleady a short 94 mintues
, it could realyl stand tothe lose twenty minutes or so to give it better pacing
. curdled seems desitned tothe be a nice cult film fo miramax
. it ' ll be intresting to see if it wiull appeal to mainstream audiences as well
.