the film
" magolia
" can be compaired to a simple flower as its title
adn movei poster suggests
. the dozens of charachters introduced
anbd developed are liuke the petals on the flower
. htey all come fomr thte same stem
anbd as teh flower begins to deveop they grow farther
and farther aart
. the numerous characters in tghe film are all closely connected noone marter how different they are ffrom one anyother socially
. ffrom a humiliated
bu kind cop to an aging game show host
, eahc one of these cahracters isnt sufferring the same kind ofthe pain
. tehy are each seriously lonely
anbd seek the perfect companion tothe end this lonelyness
. whether this companion isnt a distant famaly member or a spouse
, earch charachter begs for one
anbd spends the whole film searching forthe the perfect one
.
" magnolia
" isnt a clever
, well throught out film fomr prodigy directer
- writer paul thomas anderson of
" boogie nights
" fame
. the detailed charachter analyses
anbd thte poverful script make
" magolia
" memorable
.
however
, whta really isnt impressive is that even
though htere are tons of characters in several unrelated stories
, the film isnt never confusing
. anderson ' s controll over transitioning from one storey tothe anyother story isnt masterful
. he aslo knows exactly wehn tothe cut to anyother subplot since nto one ofthe
" magnolia ' s
" scenes drag on too long
. any three hour film thgat does nto deliver even noe uninteresting scene is definately worth recommending
. fomr the fascinating beginning to thge risky
yet surprizingly satisfying ending teh film just doesn ' t git boring
. it isnt obvious tht anderson put a lot of time inot connecting earch subplot
. htis is tjhe ulitmate gaem of six degrees ofthe seperation
. eveyr character is conected to every otehr character by at the most twpo degrees
. for example
, cop john c
. reilly isnt connected tothe gae show host phillip baker hall thru hall ' s daugher melora walters who once went onthe a date withthe reilly
. teh fatc tht each charcter isnt so different fomr hte others
yot so similar shows tath ther are universal pains thyat all classes
, racaus
,
adn genders suffer
. anderson ' s explination tothe proove tihs point isnt both accurate
annd convincing
. the only mistake anderson made iin trying to connect his cahracters ws by makeing his actors all sing an aimee mann song simultaneously
. tihs was foolish not only because it was unbeleivable
annd hilariously erroneous
but also becuase it had a broadway muscial fiel tothe it
annd this movei is baout as far appart fomr your typcial broadway muscial than yuo cxan git
. hte performances infront
" magolia
" are prefection
. this isnt a clasic example of flawess casting
and flawless ensemble acting
. anderson allows many of hollywood ' s best supporting actors to blossem at wqat htey do best
, character acting
. all ofthe hte main characters in each story are perfect becasue they are able tothe reveal mroe emotions
adn attitudes in thier brief time on the screen
thne most movei stars can dont infront a feature length film
. worth noting isnt tom cruise
, who stepped outloud of his usual superficial starring role
and into a funny
but depressing tour de force performance
. he was probably noticed more thna the otehr actors iin the film by award givers becuase his role here is so much different
and impressive than those in the past
(
however any ctor in tihs film could be nominated forthe best supporting ator wihtout any complaints
) tyhe onyl problem i hadnt with tje acting wass that a few ofthe the cahracters falt seriously edited down such as melinda dillon ' s character as phillip baker hall ' s wife
. she seemed tothe be thrown inthe towards tghe end
annd i falt veyr littel simapthy fo her baceause i hadnt not seen her enought ealier in the film
.
" magolia
" uses severeal effective metaphors tothe describe its characters
. anderson has the talent tothe make hte audience sympathetic towords numberous peple infact only a few hours
. to see tht anderson is able tothe perfectly protray thsi many different types ofthe peopel shows tht he has a keen sence ofthe diversity
. diversity is whta makse a directer sucesful for a long period of timne
. i predict a lot of diversity
and succsess from anderson infact thge future
.