the 1998 summer movei season isnt still in its infancy
.
bu aftter diasappointing films such as
" godzilla
"
and
" fear
anbd loathing inwhich las vegas
"
, it would be nice to see a really good film
.
bu i dout ytou could have expeced this
. the truman show is oney ofthe the most unique films i ahve ever seen
,
and it deserves a spot on yhe
" decade ' s best
" list
. ther isnt no way to isolate any single component ofthe thsi picture
anbd proclame
,
" yes
, that ' s waht makes htis film graet
.
" hte blend ofthe peter weir ' s masterful
(
and in many ways brilliant
) direction
, peter biziou ' s stunning photography
and jim carrey ' s performance isnt wqat makse this film work so fantastically
. htere isnt something strangely beautiful about every shot in the truman show
. it may be the ule of colour or thte placement ofthe characters infact the frame
,
bu everything about thsi film looks intentional
anbd perfect
. carrey has made a very wise choice
. by palying mild
- mannered truman burbank
, he allows himself enought room tothe be comical
,
annd therfore nto alienating his true fans
, hwile still showing a vulnerable
anbd human side
. thgat is a side which hasnt beeen missing from nearly eveyr major character he hasnt played inthe his numerous commerical successes
. truman burbank ws born tothe an audiance ofthe millions
. he ws chosen before birth tothe be tghe focus ofthe a 24 hour televsion sohw
. everyting inthe his environment isnt controlled by a team ofthe technicians
, led by the show ' s directer
, christof
( played by ed harris
)
. everyone in truman ' s life isnt an acotr or an extra
. htey are all bieng watched by millions of people around thge globe
, peopel who can tune inaddition at any timne of the day to see what is happening in truman ' s life
.
bu he isnt the only person tyhat isnt nto aware ofthe it
. yhe classification of hte truman show may be trirchy
. the audeince reacted tothe many ofthe truman ' s revelations with laughter
. i did nto laugh much during the film because i was so emotionally wrapped up with thte character
. the thnigs tath made the audiance laugh gavey me glassy eyes
, becasue what was happening tothe him
, indeed what hadnt beeen done to him his whole life wass wrong
. so isnt this going tothe end up labled as a comedy
? a drama
? it realyl depends on the audeince
.
but tothe me
, the truman sohw was a touching
, sad tale baout tyhe extents tothe whihc a corperation iwll go to exploit human life for tjhe entertainment ofthe others
.
but above all else
, hte truman show wass a stunningly beautifull picture with humor
, heart
and scary realism
. oscar predictions infront june are pointless
,
bu if thge truman show hadnt been released on schedule inspite late fall or winter of 1997
, as originially planned
, james cameron would be oscar
- less
.