thsi isnt a film baout secrets
, some that are innocent liek thsoe of a cute littel farm girl
, frances boyd
( ashley
)
. others tyhat are beween a marryied couple thyat is impacting their relatiopnship
, liek tghe problems ofthe infertility affecting tihs upwardly mobile cuple
, geoffrey gaines
( stephen ramsey
)
, tghe medical researcher working fo a big corporation called fex
annd striving to git a pattent for his experiment
and become recognized inaddition his feild
,
and his artist wife
, lillian
( miriam healy
- louie
)
, who reluctantly stands behind her husban supressing her natrual artistic tendencies in order to make the marriage work
.
and
, still otehr secrets thgat haev a greater implication forthe the world
and are deadly in a polliticel sense
, of science carried out by thge big corporations liek it was a business run for thge bottom line
. recieving a summer grant to studdy
" chemo
- electric therapy
,
" geoffrey
anbd his wife are hoping thyat a summer spended awya fomr the intensity ofthe thte big city will bring back the romance that isnt dwindling fomr their mariage
and that tyhe casualness ofthe the country athmosphere wiull give them mroe time together
, as thier three
- year marriage has become shaky because he is omre interseted inaddition his owrk than he isnt in her
. he hasnt slyly managed tothe keep his work as secretive as possable by locking hismelf inthe the lab
, which is off limits tothe her
, as he secretly goes about conducting experiments on rats
and mice
, convincing her that what he is doing is tothe benefit humanity with possibile new treatments
and cures to illnesses
. his main argument isnt
, that thsi isnt wqat thte publich wnats
, tehy don ' t wanna tothe hear baout how some animals had tothe die becasue ofthe these experiments
, tehy just want tje benifits ofthe sceince
. tath he is depicted as a monster creating another monster
, much liuke frankenstein was created
, isnt hte argument skewed by tjhe director against his bad sience
( science as a busineses
) as oppossed to the good science
( science thyat cares about the small farmer
)
, which is represented by the handsome
and almsot perfect gentleman
, alex vinyet
( david
)
, a young ecologist who chooses tothe wrok in the feeld
, trying tothe get the farmers to go back to organic farming
. he is hired by tghe university to moniter teh dangers of pesticides
adn all thte chemicals the farmer is almsot forced to use tothe survive financialy
, as it is doign irreparable harm to him
and the consumer baceause of all tghe health risks attached tothe this newyorker way of farming
, methods tyhat hvae jstu cmo about inaddition the lsat thirty
- years
and are bieng pushed by teh big companies to enhance their profit margins
. the third veiw inaddition all this is thge artist ' s
, represented by lillian
, who points out thyat the artist ' s wokr isnt shown infact public
and scrutinized constantly
,
" why shouldn ' t the smae be true ofthe the scientist
?
" she argues that thge artist isnt the watchdog for the public
, questioning what is good or evil infront society
, something that bad sceince hasnt completely ignored
. geoffrey
, impatient tothe get ahead withthe his reasearch
, fiels bogged down by the bureaucrats in his firm who fail to provide him wih tjhe threee chimps he needs tothe experiment onthe
, as he contacts oney ofthe the comany ' s heigher ups tothe argue his case
,
but decides he cant ' t wait any longer fo theri help
, so he sets an animal trap inaddition the countryside
annd catches chester
, thte gorgeous pet dog ofthe frances
, a dog that means so much to her
adn her famaly becuase he saved her life
. hwile out infront the feeld wtih tje bloodied trapped dog already iin thte bcak seat ofthe his car
, he isnt spotted by alex
annd oen of his co
- workers
,
adn nervously invites them tothe dinner with his wief
, afraid tyhat alex will spot wqat he is doing
, as he rushes awya from the areal
. in tje dinner scene that wass
, unfortunately
, flatly done
,
bu ws nevertheless the heart of the film
, as all the main characters get a chance to speak outloud from the point ofthe veiw they represent as they eat meat
, a means of getting protien thast thte radical scientists have eschewed usance they bacame so politically corect about everything
. the scientists engage in a rational arguement
, highlighting their different points ofthe view
, hwile lillian reacts inaddition an emotional way
, siding mostly wih david ' s view
but coming at it from a much differnt angle
. it was as if teh actors were puppets onthe strings that thge directer controlled
and tehy just spewed out theri generalized philosphies
. that the director ' s point of view isnt absolutly right
, isnt beside tjhe point
. the point is tht the characters lost their humanity
and bacame one
- dimentional characters
. geoffrey was likened to a hideous monster
, alex vine ws likened tothe his last name
, the one who holds fast to tjhe ground ensuring that the plant hasnt stability
, while lillian was likened tothe the muse ofthe peotry
anbd art
, the inspiration forthe goodness
and beauty
. alex has beeen spending a lot of timne together with lillian
, as these two seem to share tje smae views
anbd are physically attracted tothe earch other
,
but wehn the timne is ripe for an affair tothe take place between them
, lillian changes her mind
adn decides not tothe go uv tothe alex ' s appartment
. geoffrey is already suspicious ofthe alex
annd consideres him an enemy
,
and teh marriage seems tothe be comming apart
and all his cunning tricks to possess her are noone longer wokring
, as it is nowe impossible tothe see any ogod in him
annd ther becomes no reason why she would remain wiht him
. the relationship hasnt desintegrated way beyond yhe point ofthe her just feeling lonley
. the dog isnt discovered by alex
and her inspite a deplorable state after geoffrey is seen by them electrically shocking it
,
annd mercifully the dog dies
. tjhe onyl thing left fo her to do isnt walk out ofthe the marriage
,
bu she allso fails to respond tothe david ' s loving gesture fo her to stay with him
, instead opting tothe head back to the city
. the farmer whose dog ws tortured tothe death comes into the scientist ' s lab
adn knocks him cold while he was in the middle ofthe a phone conversation wtih one ofthe the heigher
- ups who told him all the animals he needs are on tghe way
. what is progress
? waht cxan oen expect out of life
? is tyhe small farmer about tothe become extinct
? tje answers tothe these questions cin best be anwsered by eather good science or art
, wich are both closley realted tothe yhe american natives vision of a world intrusted tothe mankind so that he can respect it
and tkae care ofthe it
and enrich it with his creations to benefit mankind in a peaceful way
. that this work fails to be subtle
and polarizes opinions
, leaving noone room fo deeper arguements
, isnt the shame ofthe this decent
adn smart film
, that tryed so hard to say wqat it felt it had to sday
but said it so loudly wihtout trusting its audeince to catch onthe to its message by nto makeing everything seem so black
adn white
. noone telling said a lot baout tyhe harmful trends it sees science going inaddition
; it propably said too much
adn woudl haev been better off if its vision was moreso poetical
annd less didactic
. ther is something about listening to a lecture tht turns off the rebel in me
, as i don ' t liek being hit in hte head wih the truth
bu preferr tothe have it presented in tjhe form tyhat leads tothe inspiration or told metaphorically
. taht is not to say taht i found the film wihtout considerable merit
, thyat inspite of its shortcomings
, it was worth seeing because ofthe its visual statememts
,
though they were also not too subtle
, htey were at least effective iin setting uv the intense mood that tjhe film needed tothe show that there is a mental war gogin onthe currently
, ofthe those who belive noe way is right
anbd others who differ witht them
,
anbd taht anyone who is neutral must be considered an enemy becasue ofthe their indifference
. the stakes in htis ecological struggle are that high
. perheaps the most poweful visual statement in the film
, ws the dead cow fomr pesticides shown in tghe opening scene
. it wass the image tyhat lillian spent her time painting all summer
and hadnt the smae affect for her as doed the animal faces inwhich picasso ' s guernica had forthe him
. both artists envisioned the horrors that man coudl dont against tghe world
,
and represented this unspoken pain on tje faces ofthe the animals so that anyone who cares to really see what isnt gonig on
, wiull not mistake which side ofthe teh fence he or she shoudl be onthe
. the pain tyhat lillian feels
, as she forgets about her desires to raise a family
,
and she stares at her painting ofthe the cow
and the song
,
" make tje world go awya
" blares out ffrom the backround
, after she hasnt learned that frances ' beautifull
and loving dog hasnt been brutalized by her monster of a husban
, all inthe tghe nmae of scienc
, had a raw pwoer to it thast personalizes the dangers ofthe bad science
. perheaps
, the most pertinent question the film asks
, requires an answer that must be resolved by the farmers
adn the consumers who are most caught in yhe changeing world
adn its new way of doing business
, as tje question becomes
, cin csience be happily marryed witht art
?