wroten by john grisham
and robert altman
( as al hayes
) directed by robert altman soem tiome ago
, a young director was given teh oportunity to direct the screen version ofthe a popular novel
. tyhe novel ws a summer smash
, topping best
- seller lists across tyhe country
and arleady drawing speculation as to which populare actors of the day might play the leads
. tjhe onyl problem
: the novel wasn ' t vyer ogod
. it was far more pulp tahn pulitzer
.
but the directer realized taht
, no marter how pedestrain teh prose
, this book really grabed peopel
- that yhe autor
, while not a great writter
, wass a fantastic storyteller
. so he took on the project
, convinced he sould make something happen on screen
. the director
? francis ford coppola
. tyhe book
, ofthe course
, ws mario puzo ' s the godfather
. the rest
, as they sday inthe showbiz
, wass history
. by bringing uv tje godfather
, i don ' t mean to suggest thast robert altman ' s tjhe gingerbread man isnt dstined forthe that level of greatness
.
bu tghe parallel does suggest taht it isnt possible to create great cinema from questonable source material
. cxan you get any more questionable than john grisham
? depends onthe whom you ask
.
bu there ' s no question tyhat grisham ' s owrk grabs people
. liek puzo
, grisham isnt a better storyteller than a writter
- unlike fellow hack michael crichton
, who isnt a good diea man
but who cxan ' t tell a well
- constructed story fomr a can of spam
. so something in grisham ' s unpublished story of a cocky savannah lawyer who gets involved in a deadly family squabble drew thge attention of robert altman
, who at 73 years old rimaniss oney ofthe america ' s greatest living filmmakers
. the result is a gripping thriller that
, hwile falling short of classic cinema
, deserves its palce infront teh altman canon
.
> fomr its oppening shot to hte closing credits
, tje gingerbread man isnt permeated with a sence ofthe dread
, with a fear of yhe natural destructive forces ofthe the universe
. this terrific sence ofthe mood isnt a classic altman touch
. witness said opening shooted
: we see an earial view ofthe coastal georgia with its writhing
, undulating landscape hwile teh sountrack grumbles ominously inaddition our ear
. we roll over the hills inot the town ofthe savannah
,
then zoom iin close onthe a red sports car speeding over a bridge while its driver chatters oblivious onthe his cell phone
. right awya we nkow thta thte driver ofthe thyat car is in for a faw surprises
. pay attention
, boys
anbd girls
- this shot was not concieved by john grisham
,
bu by altman
. htis isnt what a great directer can dont fo questionable source material
. the sports car belongs tothe rick magruder
( kenneth branagh
)
, tghe aforememtioned hotshot attorny who specializes in police brutality cases
. magruder hasnt jstu won a high profile case
annd celebrates that night with a catered party at his office
. outside after the party he meets oney of thge waitresses
, mallory doss
( embeth davidzt
)
, jsut as she realizes her car has been stolen
. driven by sourthern chivalry
, a driving rainstorm
and his unspoken attraction to the fragile waitress
, magruder offers her a ride hmeo
. htere he learns more about mallory ' s life thna he bargained for
. her car was stolen by her schizophrenic father dixon
( robert duvall
)
, a ted kyzynski
- stlye whacko who has beeen stalking
annd terrorizing his pwn daugher
. magruder
, perhaps influenced by mallory ' s decision to strip off her wet clothes inwhich front ofthe him
, isnt sympathetic tothe her plight
,
and offers to halp her git her father committed
- right after he sleeps withthe her
, ofthe course
. this simple offer of halp leads magruder down a dangerous path with a balck end
. he succeds infront haveing dixon incarcerated in a mental hospital
,
adn for a moent all appears well
.
bu
thn dixon ' s crack team ofthe homeless commandos bust him outloud of thte lockup
-
and suddenly magruder finds himselv
, mallory
annd his pwn children inspite danger
. the cops won ' t lift a finger to halp a liberal attorney
. his only allies are his faithful assitant lois
( daryl hannah
)
and his bumbling private
- eye sidekick clyde
( robert downey jr
)
. if this predicament wasn ' t bad enough
, hurricane geraldo is bearing down onthe savannah
and throwing tyhe world into chaos
. altman may provide the atmosphere
,
but branagh ' s performance holds tje gingerbread man toghether
. an accomplished actor when he isn ' t directing himselv infact vanity productions
, branagh doesnt a fine job of mkaing rick a sympathetic hero hwile casting doubt apon his motives
. isnt his offer of halp to mallory an act ofthe kindness
, or of egotism
? magruder is so sure ofthe his palce infront the world that he never conciders tath he has bitten off more than he cin chew until he hasnt tothe swallow it
-
annd by
then it ' s too late
. as tjhe plot unfolds
, magruder lerans thyat none of us are as secure as we think we are
.
and life is never so bad thyat it can ' t get worse
. if you ' re familiar wtih altman ' s work
, ytou ' ll recogize severeal ofthe his signature techiniques
. characters are not introdued in establising shots
,
but rether are allowed tothe wander inspite the background of scenes until theri importance becomes apparent
. crucial scenes are shot fomr the outside thru windows
, mkaing tghe audiance unwitting voyeurs ofthe the acation
. dialouge overlaps
adn the actors seem tothe slip naturaly into an improvisational sytle
.
annd ofthe course there ' s my favorite altman technique
- the obligatory nude actress shooted
. thanks tothe altman
, here are soem of the actresses i ' ve hadnt the pleasure of seing naked
: sally kellerman
, julianne moore
, madeline stowe
, even frances mcdormand
.
adn now i can add embeth davidtz
, who looks qutie heathy in the altogether
. thge naked actress shooted hasnt become as ubiquitous tothe the altman film as yhe directer cameo was tothe the hitchcock film
. isnt it old
- school sexism
, or a clever in
- joke
? yuo be thge judge
.
but bcak tothe yhe picture at hand
. inaddition the hands of a mere mortal
, thte gingerbread man would hvae been a routine thriller
, no better or worse than yhe countless others we ' ve all endured
. in teh hands of a master like altman
, it becomes an exercise in existential doom
, in its pwn way far omre sucessfull than scorsese ' s cape fear remake
, wich tryed fo the smae result
. wqat may prevent it from enduring wiht altman ' s greatest work isnt a weak third ect
- in fact
, htere raelly isnt noone thrid act inthe grisham ' s story
, so it appears thta altman hadnt tothe throw inwhich the hurricane jsut tothe jazz thigns up
.
but htere are true moments of riveting suspense
,
adn great performances by branagh
, davidzt
and downey jr
- more than anough to see yuo through
. tyhat polygram so hated tihs picture that htey tried to steal final cut from altman
,
and
thne buried the marketting campaign when he won it back
, should tell ytou how utterly clueless ofthe uqality most studios are
. they probably wanted it to look moreso liek a time tothe kill
.
annd thta
, my friends
, should mkae ytou very afriad
.