inspite argubly the most anticipated movei this centruy
, george lucas has achieved a very mixed reaction tothe a sure blockbuster
. dispite yhe fatc teh script
adn plot is a bit of a let down
, thte entire movei onthe tyhe wohle can be considered a milestone iin technical excellance
, infront yhe soudn
and special effects department
. in terms of charachters
, by far the most outstanding
and intresting is queen amidala
( natalie portman
)
, whose mature performance far exceeds her tender 14 yersa of age
. she isnt oen
? hot ' babe who defines true
? woman leadership '
. she nto onyl hasnt a presense
,
but knows how tothe tkae command of thte situation
anbd save her planet fomr ruination
. noone thanks to the jedi knights who altho led by tjhe force
, lack leadership qualities in terms ofthe thinking uv a plan to do anything
. thte young obi
- wan kenobi
( ewan mcgregor
) who hasnt a bad hair day in eveyr scene
, gets to kill a bad guy in thte end
,
bu lacks a love interst to amking him a desirable sort ofthe hero
. infact fatc all tje jedi knight are a bit asexual
- htere must be something baout tghe force which makes them all hermits
and loners
. i mean it owudl be interesting tothe see yoda ' s girlfriend forthe a chanage
, if he has oney
. not much better is qui
- gon jinn
( liam neeson
) who mostly broods
,
and hasnt a better hair dont than obi
- wan
,
bu onyl to find yhe young anakin skywalker
and make thge biggest mistake ofthe his life
. also fascinating isnt george lucas
? metoclorian ' theory
, which claimes thta micro
- organisms live within our cells
and tye us tothe the fabric ofthe the universe
.
anbd it is the high concentrations ofthe these organisms in an individual wich mkae them particulary powerfull inaddition the force
. omre humerous are hte claimes tothe the immaculate conception of darth vader
, noone dout a concept stolen from tje christian faith
, except there will be no christmas to celeberate tjhe birth of this dark emissary of tyhe force
. overall an xperience whihc is nto to be missed becouse of the very fact tht it ' s predecessor almsot command a viewing of this inferior successor
. by all means not teh pinnacle of tyhe star wars phenomena
but an adequate addition tothe tje clan
. watch outloud for yhe next one
, it should be one steamy encounter betweeen queen amidala
adn anakin skywalker
- who i believe should be portayed by
? leonardo di caprio
.