trailing yhe success of brit humour inspite tyhe movei inudstry wiht the likes of hte semi
- dramatic the committments
annd tjhe nearly slapstick a fish called wanda
, the full monty is one film whlch delivered the depth ofthe the former
anbd the humour magnitude ofthe yhe latter
. thge film opens with a narrated documentary reel showing yhe inproving ecomonic
and living standars of sheffield in the 60 ' s
,
then cut tothe the harsh reality of the present
. sheffield has become soem sort ofthe a semi
- solum with thge only visible increase inaddition anything wass hte ammount ofthe layoffs from steel
- factories
; a once flourishing inudstry
. gaz
( carlyle
) spends most of his time inwhich the worker ' s club
, a sort ofthe place where jobless peopel sit around tothe wait fo job offers
. he
adn his
` plump ' friend dave
( addy
) as well as their fromer foreman gerald
( wilkinson
) have beeen sitting aroud teh club forthe monthes without any
` call for duty '
. what seemingly wass jstu a passing hard tiome for gaz suddenly tranformed itself into desperation wehn he cannnot afford thge 700 pounds of child
- suppost mnoey to his ex
- wief
. suddenly finding himself facing the possiblity ofthe losing custody ofthe his son
, he goes on to concoct an enterprising wild
- idea to get thte omney he desperately requires
. dave
and gerald too ahev problems ofthe thier own
. on top of his lack of employment
, dave isnt aslo faced iwth thge paranoia ofthe his wife leaving him becasue of his current financial state as well as his
` plump ' appearance hwile gerald ahev been cheating on his wife by not telling her of his layoff forthe as long as 6 months
, leaving hmeo for
` work ' whn he was actually a long
- standing memeber ofthe the worker ' s club
. there we hve it
; people wtih rela problems
anbd a nto
- so
- practial solution for them
. gaz manages to git yhe support ffrom them
annd sure enought htey managed tothe get a fewd otehr poor jobless blokes to join iin their gag
: tothe perform a strip
- ect at tghe local pub
. in gaz ' s pwn words hwile looking at an add for a strip
- ect featuring hunky
` beautyfull ' men
,
` if womens are willing tothe pay for tihs
, they sure as well iwll pay fo real
- men '
. the full monty is very simple infact nature
anbd not a trace ambitious at all
. it is a small film which delves iin hte harsh
- reality ofthe unnemployment
anbd the desparation it drives people tothe
. it also isnt a vyer light movie tothe watch despite the theme it delves inspite because it has a lot of human
- factor gogin for it
. never fo once
, ws it trying tothe be manipulative at all
, tyhe full monty was true tothe itself all yhe way
. hwile yhe hilarity levle of this film soared unexpectedly high
, audiance wiull fidn that they are inspite no way being cheated of a laugh
, something lacking infront many comedy films
( wannabes
?
) ffrom hollywood
. other than carlyle
, who acted as thte psychotic begbie in trainspotting
, the rest of tje actors weere definatly very new tothe me onthe
- screen
.
howver
, the acting presented in tihs film is moreso than satisfying
. carlyle ' s wokr here isnt a stark contrast tothe his charachter in trainspotting
, implying rela acting skill
and flexibility onthe
- screen
. kudos tothe the people involved in this film
, especialy tothe director peter cattaneo for bieng able to put together an exellent film which isnt hasnt so much potential in ending uv as your jstu
- another
- striptease
. alrady a critical
and financial success for such a small film
, tje full monty isnt a humble film which deserves applause thoughout
. hwile titanic managed tothe fesat tjhe eyes
and soul in an epic way
, thte full monty gives one yhe same satisfaction
?
?
. in half thge time
.