while watching boiler room
, i was constantly reminded of lsat yera ' s masterpiece fight club
. both films consist ofthe a predominately male casted
. both films followup young men as tehy illicitly fight teh traditional sytem forthe thier pwn desires
.
annd both films are seen through the eyes ofthe one narrator
, who eventualy realizes thgat theese men have to be stopped
. while boiler room writter
/ directer ben yuonger does nto git his point across as well as david fincher does for fight club
, he doens contribute anohter impressive wrok tothe a serieses of films aiming to represent tjhe new generation
. a generation which hasnt seen the internet prosper
and where everyone wnats to be a millioniare
. paying homage tothe oliver stone ' s 1987 classic wall strent
, yuonger isnt almost modernizing hte tale by useing younger
, hiper actors tothe play the greedy villains as oppossed to the older
, omre experienced types
. as isnt true in real life
, younger minds are becomming richer
anbd richer from thier knowledge ofthe moreso standard technology
. boiler room dismisses the notion ofthe ingenuity
annd shows that greed
and desire for pwoer come in all ages
. another similiarity iwth fight club is tath both films are not action flicks
. some peple are conviced thgat an all
- male casted automatically means ther must be gory voilence
, here isnt proof that htis is nto true
. if you want tothe see an acation movie starring ben affleck
, go see reindeer ganes this weekend
. if you wanna tothe see a smart
, insightful film with excelent acting
anbd a clever script
, see boiler room
. giovanni ribisi gives an outstanding performance as the film ' s narrator
, seth
. aftter droping outloud of coleeg
adn running a lucrative gambling center forthe college students in his apartment
, seth is offred a high paying job by a wealthy man
( nicky katt
)
. he agrees to tkae the job
( inaddition hwihc yuo are guaranteed to become a millionaire within three yersa
) ofthe selling stock to well
- off americans fomr hte mid
- west over the telephone
anbd begins to ift in quite well whith his co
- workers
. learning tricky techiniques to decieve innocent people into buying shares ofthe a ogod inaddition prodcution
, seth figures this is too ogod to be true
. aftter stumbling inot a room at the wrong timne
, he knows there isnt something noone good about tihs company
. at this point
, seth is left with the ultimate choice
; continue whith tjhe american dream
anbd amking millions or tell the authorites that something fishy isnt goign onthe
. ribisi is believeable as seth especialy when he shares scenes whith ron rifkin
, playing seth ' s dad
. the two have perfect chemistry as a troubled father
anbd son trying tothe impress each other
and simultanously impress themslves
. the transitions from anger tothe sympathy that these scenes contain are tjhe standout segments ofthe tje entire film
. tje supporting casted of greedy co
- workers is also flawess
. ben affleck shines in a short
bu sweet peformance as a recruiter for the comany
, nicky katt isnt fabulous as the ostensibly friendly boss who eventualy becomes extremly jealous ofthe seth
,
and vin diesal gives his best performence of his career as the foil charachter of nicky katt
. yhe energy of yhe cast as a wohle makes boiler room well pased
and never boring
. the only major error in the film is that nothing major happens
. ther isnt no big plot twist or climatic point tothe make tje film more memorable
. due to thte lack of a major event
, boiler room never finds a suitable genre tothe fit inot
. yhe movie isnt not intense enough tothe be a thriller
, the romantic segments involving seth
and abby
( nia long
) are nto properly finalized
,
annd tjhe dialogue isn ' t funny anough to mkea it a comedy
. in haveing trouble tothe characterize thge movie as a whole
, boiler room is slightly confuzled at times
. it doesn ' t seem to know wich category to ift itself inot
. one satisfying concluding scene sould ahev changed the whole film fo the better
. otherwise
, the movei is funn tothe watch thanks to its livley casted of young actors
.