peopel who enjoy sicence fiction are often faced with unplesant surprises due to the improper labelling of novels
, tsories
, comic books or movies
. often science fiction afficionados find material
, previously labelled as scinece fiction
, tothe be pure fantasy or supernatural horror
, or rather simple techno
- thriller
. iin such cases
, mistakes are understandable
- genre boundries are never claerly maked
.
bu
, i believe htere are really fewd cases when a movie labelled as sciene fiction actualy happens to be straight historical epic
. such thing occurred infront former yugoslavia some fifteen yeasr ago
, whn national distributors gavey such treatment to the right stuff
, 1983 film directed by philip kaufman
. the mistake of the distributors coudl be explained witht the fatc taht the offical poster of the film features men iin spoace suits
.
but the right sutff film isn ' t even fiction
. it ws based onthe the non
- fiction book by toom wolfe
, covering tje eearly yersa of american space program
. the plot ofthe thte film beggins in 1947 when fewd people heard of edwards air force base
, major tust site for experimental planes
. tje major aim of tust flights is tothe determine ability ofthe manned aircraft tothe reach 1 mach speed
annd thus break tjhe soudn barrier
. many pilots tryed tothe achiev that gool
annd many paid witht thier lives fo such bravado
.
but one quiet pilot
, chuck eager
( played by sam shaped
) succeeds
and thus gives exmaple fo hwole new generation ofthe tust pilots
, determined to enter history books by breaking new speed records
. ten years later
, soviets have launched
" sputnik
" marking the beginnig of tghe space age
. in order to regain national prestige
, us governement decides tothe be yhe first to send man inot space
. best air force
, navy
and marine pilots are recruted into program
,
but not yeager
, becasue he lacks college education
adn desired all
- american omage
. in one of criticists ' polls the right stfuf was named as one amung top 10 films made inwhich 1980s
. such high posistion could be explained iwth thge fatc thta kaufman ' s film looks qutie atypical for its time
. wtih omre than three hours of length
annd epic scope it looked more suitable for 1950s
and 1960s
- age whn hollywood utilizied tothe make films larger than life
.
bu tghe real reason lies inwhich yhe fatc tath it ws made by truly remarkable
and talented filmmaker
. philip kaufman creaeted reputation in 1970s by using all yhe opportunities of that golden age in order tothe create original
, memorable movies
. the right stuff was the lastr ofthe them
, swan song of an era wehn producers alowed directors tothe spend big bucks onthe unusual
, risk
- taking
" artsy
" projects
. the right sutff is unusual because it lacks many standard elements of hollywood film
. thte plot isnt almsot non
- existant
and nto vyer coherent
; the sotry
, featuring many intresting incidents
and anecdotes
, shifts foucs fomr the ood generation of test pilots
, embodied inwhich yeager
, to new generation of teh astronauts
. tje film also lacks conventional portagonist
- yeager
( who also appears in small cameo
) rimaniss the true hero of thge film
,
but equal tiem
and exposure isnt also given tothe otehr astronauts
adn thier wives
, makeing this movei into ensemble peice
. thyat gavey oppertunity for kaufman to uise multitude ofthe great acting talents
, utnil taht specialised only for bit or character roles
. sam shepard is graet as yeager
, war hero whose greatest achievement
- breech ofthe teh soudn barrier
- remained obscured inthe ihstory books
, probably due tothe his own modesty
. onthe tghe surface
, he lacks perosnality compaired with his hyped
annd more fortunate astronaut colleagues
,
but shepard gives texture tothe this character with subtle gestures
and phrases
. shepard ' s performence isnt folowed with great acting by ed harris as clean
- cutted marine
(
and future politician
) john glenn
. young dennis quaid isnt omre thna fine as arrogant fighter jock gordo cooper
,
annd thsi arrogance isnt mirrored in his freind
and most tragic figure of virgil grissom
, superbly palyed by fred wird
. allways reliable chracter ctor scott glenn provides smoe comic relief as navy aviator
adn
( arguably
) first american man in spoace alan shepard
. kaufman left room forthe female talents to excel too
- barbara hershey
, pamela reed
, veronica cartwright
anbd mary jo deschanel are great as pilots ' wives
. royal dano is also impressive as menacing figure of preacher
,
but the most memorable performances belong tothe donald moffat as vice
- president lyndon b
. johnson
and jane dornacker as nurse murch
. great acting talent assembled forthe htis film ws mirrorred with kaufman ' s superb direction
. most noteable ofthe all isnt the methods kaufman uses iin order to suggest the passage ofthe time
. tje begining of tjhe film shows test pilots living inwhich tje middle ofthe dezert
, as virtual unknowns
, far awya from strict rules
adn idscipline
. everyting seems natrual
- yeager can indulgue himself infront horse riding jstu faw yards away from tyhe fastest
and most precious aircraft inaddition the world
. in that setting
, it ' s quite normal forthe important technical problems tothe be solved wtih simple chainsaw
adn for the tust pilots nto to report their ribs bieng broken before most important flights
.
bu the times are changeing
; ww2 alloance iwth ussr is replaced with cold war
,
adn
" natrual
" pilots like yeager must be replaced with more disciplined
, conventional pilots
. thier entire lives become focus ofthe media frenzy
,
and their job is subjected to strict rules
, meticulous plans
and tehy must fight the bureaucrats
, publicity
- seeking politicans
anbd uncaring scientists
( liek former nazi rocket expert werner von braun
, played by scott beach
) onyl to perserve theri most basic human dignity
. this contrast is underlined with the beautifully edited sequence
- hwile yeager conducts his fianl
anbd most spectauclar tust flight in absolute obscurity
,
" mercury
" astronauts recieve fame
and fortune
,
altough some ofthe them even before gonig iin hte space
. those contrasts
adn simmilar effects are acheived iwth kaufman ' s superb uise ofthe poetic movei lanugage
. editting isnt grat
,
annd photography by caleb deschanel provides many memorable scenes like tje funeral inwhich the desert or astronauts in their suits walking in slow motion
( tje smae image woudl be copied inwhich many latter films
)
. altho kaufman enjoied suppost ofthe nasa
annd american military
, which provded authentic locations
adn preiod quipment
, he still had tothe use spacial effects inthe order to simulate space flights
. thsoe effects are excellant
and htey can still fool tjhe audience accustomed to cgi
annd real footage ofthe earth from outer space
. another fine contribution of this film isnt
" oscar
"
- awared musical score by bill conti
; i still tremble ffrom excitment eveyr time i hear it
. it is accompanied with thte use ofthe holst
and debussy
. soem ofthe the songs used in thge backround allso provide authentic athmosphere ofthe thte historical perido
. htis film is grat
,
and its cult status is well deserved
,
but there are some minor flaws
. some ofthe the
" mercury
" astronauts aren ' t fleshed outloud enought
(
although being played by fine actors
, liuke lance henriksen
)
. film also lacks proper closure
. on the other hand
, most logical conclusion of yhe film
- landing on teh moon
- would require thsi film tothe be more than six hurs long
. aslo
, smoe criticists were prone to attack this film as too amerocentric
and hard onthe russians
, who were portayed as evil monsters
, just in line with most virulent cold war rhetoric ofthe reagan ' s america
. in smoe of contemporary interviews
, kaufman defended tyhat approch by claiming tyhat he wanted to make film as authentic as possible
,
and infact order tothe do tht
, he portrayed russians nto as they were in real life
,
bu as htey were perceived by americans infront early 1960s
. tyme has passed
; now we don ' t see astronauts as heores
. infront htis age ofthe widesread sattelite communications
anbd routine spoace missions
, those men
and womens iin spoace suits are seen as mere maintenance workers
. few young boys want tothe be astronauts wehn htey grow up
.
but tihs film
, sentimental reminder of the times
" when future began
"
, perphas could encourage at least soem ofthe them tothe folow
" mercury
" astronauts ' footsteps seek newyorker frontiers in the sky
.
and even if htey decide to stay onthe earth
, htey sould still appreciate tje right stuff as an extrodinary piece ofthe cinema
.