ultra low budget
bu extremly inventive horror film about a gropu of friends vacationing in a cabin who acidentally awaken an evil force inthe tghe woods via teh necronomicon
, the book ofthe the dead
. bruce campbell stars as ash
, who eventially becomes the sole surviver
and has to battle both the demons ffrom the woods
,
and his friends who hve become demons
( including his pwn girlfriend
)
. the results shown on screen are amazing concidering the film ' s tiny budget
, constant location changes
,
and a filming schedul that wass sporatic over twpo yeasr
. folowed by twpo sequels
: evil dead ii
( 1987
)
and army ofthe darkness
( 1993
)
. tjhe dvd release of this film ffrom elite entertainment contains the film inaddition it ' s origional aspect ratio ofthe 1
. 33
: 1
. the disc contains twpo versions ofthe tyhe film ' s audio
: a stereo 2
. 0 trac
annd a newely remastered dolby digital 5
. 1
. included are two separate running commentary tracks
: the firt features writer
/ directer sam raimi
anbd producer rob tapert
anbd the second track features the film ' s star
, bruce campbell
. campbell ' s commentary is informative
and extremely witty
, as he has a stor tothe tell forthe virtually eveyr scene in yhe film
. such informative tidbits include
: the originnal title of the film wass gogin tothe be book ofthe tyhe dead
(
anbd in fact whn hte film premiered in 1981 thast ws it ' s title
)
and wehn they were asked tothe change teh title to tghe evil dead
, everyone thought it ws tyhe worst title they hadnt ever heard
. also
, htere ' s a scene early on inthe hte film where yhe gropu sist around
and listens tothe a tape recorder which they ' ve foudn that ' s explaning about the demonic forces in teh woods
. fo that scene
, it was written for the charachters to be smoking marijuana
, so being the wacky kids thast they were at the time
, htey desided tothe actually smoke marijuana forthe the scene
. allmost all ofthe that footage bcame unusable because many of tyhe acotr ' s had never smoked befor
,
and as a result they bacame
" confuzled
"
and were unable tothe perform thge scene
. i wish tghe entertainment factor was as high for tyhe sam raimi
/ rob tapert audio trac
. the twpo people yuo ' d think owudl be more enthuseastic in tlaking baout this film instade bearly hvea much tothe sday at all
. don ' t get me wrong here
, when they dont speak it ' s entertaining to hear
,
but ther are many instances where both are silent for long periods ofthe timne
. sometimes affter oen ofthe those long silences rob will ask
" have anytying tothe say sam
?
" tothe me
, thyat ' s nto a good sign
. alsot
, it seems liuke sam raimi doesn ' t rember much about the film
and it ' s production
.
.
. well
, compaired tothe rob
adn bruce anyway
. alsot included on the disc isnt a photo gallery
( hwihc includes picturesk from the film ' s
" gala
" premiere
)
adn about twenty mintues ofthe raw footage from the film
. thsi raw footage relaly shows you how much a film cin be improved apon useing simple audio techniques
. overall
, the evil dead is a good low budget horror film
, superior to many films infront it ' s genre
.
and yhe collector ' s edition dvd realease is well worth your tiem if you ' re eather a fan ofthe the film or jsut a fan of yhe filmmaking proccess
. all special edition dvds should be this thorough
and intertaining
.