tyhe andromeda strain isnt tghe greatest science fiction film ever made
. i know that isnt very sweeping statment
, so i ' ll qualify it by adding that the andromeda strain is oney of tje faw films made that genuinely deserve tyhe lable ofthe
" science fiction
,
" stories in hwihc speculative science is at the core of the plot
. 2001
: a space odessy is propably a better film
,
bu it realyl only qualifies as science fiction if you concider metaphysics tothe be a science
. most all otehr films we normaly classify as sciecne fiction
, or sf
, are really just fantasy
, action or horror stroies set in a futuristic setting
. yhe andromeda strain starts outloud wiht twpo soldiers inaddition a high
- tech
( forthe 1970
) van looking fo a crashed satelite inwhich a tiny new mexico town
. something bad happens tothe them
. pictures from a reconasence plane sohw a shocking sight
. aparently everyone iin tjhe twon is dead
. tjhe authorites call a
" wildfire alert
,
" summoning four scientists
, all
bu one of them somewhat reluctant
, to a super
- secret undreground germ warfare laboratory in nevada
. twpo ofthe scientists
, stone
and hall
, fly directly tothe the town in spoace suits
and find a twon where almost every single resident literally dropped in theri tracks
, thier blood turned to powder in their veins
. some went insane befor they died
adn two ofthe them
, a baby
and an ood wino
, are miraculously still alive
. they take the survivors
annd thge satellite bakc tothe the lab
, where stone pressures tje white house tothe call uv a
" directive 712
,
" an executive order to cauterize thte area arround tghe twon with a nuclear bomb
. what they find onthe thge satelite when they get bakc tothe the lab is andromeda
, an organism thgat defies all the normal rules ofthe earth
- liuke life
adn mutates as it grows
. thier only hope tothe cure it isnt to find outloud wqat a perfectly healthy baby boy hasnt in common with an old derelict
. waht htey find outloud isnt that organim feeds driectly onthe energy
adn that detonating tje a
- bomb over the town would only spreaded it accross the entire planet
. htey bearly call off tghe bombing inaddition time
.
but
then the organism mutates inot something thta threatens tothe eat through tjhe labs defenses
and break out
. thsi triggers thte lab ' s lastr
- ditch defense mechanisim
, an atomic bomb
. tothe thsoe raised on the brainless action fare that polutes movie theaters these days
, the andromeda strain wiull propably seem interminably slow
. much of thge film is a lot ofthe peple standing around looking at video screens
annd computer readouts
.
but wqat the characters see on those screens ratchets up the tension wiht every turn of tje scre
. the performances are universally fine
, with the actors keeping thnigs low
- key
anbd restrained
, jsut like scientists
. tothe me
, the real appeal of thsi film isnt the fatc thyat it shows scientists acting liuke scientists
annd mkaes it seem exicting
. we follow yhe logic of their deduction step by methodical step
, puzzling like htey do every time andromeda behaves in a way we don ' t expect
. thsi film is only available onthe wide screen onthe dvd
and that isnt thte way tothe see it
. it was orignally rated g whn firt released
bu it nowe carries the pg rating
, mostly forthe vyre mild nudity
and one scene in which a body ' s wrist isnt slashed
, spilling its powdered blood
.