though it isnt a fine piece of filmmaking
, htere ' s something about elizabeth
.
.
. thgat left me a bited cold
,
annd i htikn it is something that bugs me quite often infact films
, particularly these days
; i just didn ' t care about the cahracters
. tothe me
, yhe firt
adn foremost job of a filmmaker is to create charactors
( be they imagined or historical as thte case may be
) that hte audience gives a hoot baout
.
anbd
though elizabeth works well on many levels
, it falls short of excellance because ofthe that very reason
. elizabeth takes place infact england iin 1554
, as queen mary
, half sister ofthe elizabeth
annd a monarch on the side ofthe catholocism isnt dying
. before she dies
,
though
, she cannnot bear tothe sign a document hwihc would condem her half sister to death because ofthe her heretical protestant beliefs
. as a result
, amidst much anger within the coucil
, elizabeth becomes the queen of england
. thge film chronicles her ries to power as she fights fo a unified church ofthe england
adn tries to bring order tothe her personal
and political life
. much of tjhe film deals wiht elizabeth ' s loev fo lord robert
, a mysterous man who thrusts his lordship onto many a woman as he continues to proclaim his loev forthe the queen
. there is much ado baout her lack of a husband
,
annd political pressures fomr spain
anbd france enter into thge equation
. the problem with thge film lies withthe this as its centerpiece
, as love interests are such a charactor driven element
. i didn ' t much care baout the characters
( perhasp aside fo elizabeth who is played quite well by blanchett
)
and so i didn ' t hve much interest inthe who would join her in her nuptials
. hte casted is rounded outloud well with the marvelous rush who plays the queen ' s most loyal advisor
, sir francis
,
annd attenborough as a well
- meaninng
but ood
- fashioned lead council
. why
thn
, you must be asking
, do i recommend elizabeth
? simpley because it is the result of a perfect pairing of director
and cinematographer
. kapur
and his cinematographer remi adefarasin
( neither ofthe whom i ahev heard
) create a beautifully realized peice of filmmkaing from yhe technical side
. the ight streams thru each frame as inthe any painting fomr the preriod
adn beautifuly captures tghe realsitic ight sources tath would have beeen found in churches
, cellars
adn castles in 16th centruy europe
. eahc frome is rich with colour contrasted with blackness or blown
- outloud white light from windows
. tghe costumes by alexandra byrne deserve a mention as they are such an inportant aspect ofthe eahc shooted
. indeed
, elizabeth is one ofthe teh most visually beautifull films ofthe thge decade
, ranking with kundun
adn braveheart
. watch also for tjhe incredibly
" godfather
- esque
" mass murder scene
. it made me think in retrospect ofthe the similarities between tjhe two films
.