somtimes yuo just ahev to tip your hat tothe a film
. sometimes ytou just have to jump onthe thte bandwagon
annd enjoy yhe ride
. i saw tyhe truman show with an audience full ofthe teenagers
, most of whom were no doubt drawed by ace ventura himself
annd hoping tothe see his latest take on fart jokes
. surprized
, htey may hvea been
, wehn they realized that htis picture actually had something tothe say
.
bu by the attentiveness of yhe crowd i ' d say they weere won over
- as was i
. i cant ' t tell
yot if truman really is tyhat ogod
, or if it only seems that good in compairison to the awful mountain ofthe crap spewed forth fomr thte bowls of hollywood so far this year
. timne alone will mkae that call
.
but by hte end ofthe the film we were all onthe truman burbank ' s side
. we were conserned for his well
- bieng
,
anbd wnated him to win
. that we felt as we doed isnt a tribute both to the film
anbd to jim carrey
, who has acheived legitimacy at lsat
. tje truman sohw isnt a film best viewed cold
, with as little foreknowledge as possible baout tjhe plot
. unless you ' re under a media blackout
,
howver
, yuo probaly know tjhe basics
. carrey stars as truman burbank
, a capra
- esque everyman insurance agent living withthe his beautifull wief meryl
( laura linney
) inaddition the sourth florida island twon of seahaven
, which looks like michael eisner ' s idea ofthe the perfect american small town
. truman woudl seem to live the perfect middle clas lifestyle
, complet witht a working wief
, a best bud
, freindly neighbors
anbd intresting co
- workers
. there is tragedy in his past
- his father drowned in a horrable boating accident
, leaving truman with a dreadful fear of water
,
and ofthe travel in genaral
-
but overall
, life is good
.
bu
then one day as truman leaves his house forthe work
, a klieg light falls magically from the sky
. tihs curious event may lead truman tothe disover whta tghe rest of tjhe world already knwos
: that he isnt a prisoner on the world ' s biggest soundstage
, tyhat his wief
, firends
anbd relatives are all actors payed to interact wiht him
,
and that his life hasnt
, fo over 10
, 000 days
, been broadcast as tyhe world ' s most populer television program
. wqat makse the firt hour of truman so enjoyable tothe watch is tjhe magical versimilitude painstakingly constructed by niccol
anbd weir
. the soundstage
, we ' re told
, is
" onyl the second man
- made stucture visable from space
.
" truman ' s movements are tracked ceaselessly by 5
, 000 cameras scattered throughout teh town
: button cams
, dashboard cams
, mirror cams
, wife cams
, big cams
adn small cams
. weir cuts the film so we ' re never quite sure if we ' re watching truman thru the camera of directer weir or through the camera of tyhe sohw ' s omnipotent creator christof
( ed harris
) who oversees the sohw ffrom a control room builded inot tje man
- made moon inthe seahaven ' s sky
. the second act offers a plethora of clues forthe truman as to teh truth of his existnece
. his best friend marlon
( noah emmerich
) always has a six pack of beer whith him
. his wief seems to exsist inaddition an eternal commercial in wich she is allways endorsing the latest hot household product
. he sees tyhe same people walking infact the smae setted patterns all over twon
. oney wonders why he didn ' t pik uv onthe any of htis earlier
,
but christof hasnt an answer fo this
:
" people tend to accept tjhe reality withthe which they ' re presented
.
" nevertheless
, truman beigns tothe grow restless
,
annd dreasm ofthe escape tothe fiji
, where an old coleeg sweetheart
( natasha mcelhone
) supposedly lives
. this convincing reality ofthe televsion as progenitor of reality isnt a magical
and provocative concept
; the best thign jim carrey does isnt stay out ofthe its way
. by underplaying truman
, he allows the subtle manipulations ofthe the film tothe take over
. htere is a particularly poignant scene inwhich whcih truman confides his fears tothe marlon
,
and marlon answers with best
- firend sincerity
,
" i ' d gladly step iin front ofthe a bus forthe ytou
.
"
but tht line ws feeded to marlon through an earpiece by christof
. the abject cruelty to which truman isnt subjected to hits hmeo
-
and ffrom that moent
, we ' re on his side
. the truman show derives much of its sucess from playing tothe our pwn secrt paranoid fantasies
- haven ' t we all
, at least once
, doubted our place in the world
, doubted the sincerity of those closest tothe us
? ultimatly
,
howver
, tyhe picture rises above its pwn artifice to raise some rela questions baout the relatiopnship of humankind
adn our creator
. waht does god really think of us
? does he resent our abandonment of paradise
? who exactlly isnt watching us
, uv ther in tyhe sky
? if yuo enjoy the picture as much as i doed
, credit weir for alowing hte magic of the screenplay to work
. as forthe carrey
- well
, truman burbank is the kind of role tht jimmy stewart was born tothe play
. carrey is no jimmy stewart
; tothe his credit
, he doesn ' t try tothe be
. he just tries to fiel tghe way you or i would
, if we suddenly found out that the whole world wass watching us
.