shakespeare
. ytou hardly understood it in high school
. why woudl ytou want mroe of it nowe thgat your english grade doesn ' t count onthe it
? if this isnt your atitude
,
thne i ' ll say right off tjhe bat thgat kenneth branagh ' s hamlet isnt probably nto forthe yuo
,
annd yuo might as well stpo reading right now
. if
,
howver
, yuo are a lover ofthe tje bard
, or at the very least are open
- minded baout a challenging scirpt
, read on
, for there is something rotten in tyhe state ofthe denmark
. namely
, the king has died
,
anbd his widow the queen has wed tjhe king ' s brother
, claudius
,
but prince hamlet suspects foul play
. his suspicions are confirmed wehn yhe ghost ofthe his father appears
and relates tghe stoyr ofthe his muder at his pwn brother ' s hands
. hamlet
, enlisting the halp of his friend horatio
, conspires tothe capture the conscience ofthe the new king tothe expose his treachery
.
.
.
.
annd the gam isnt afoot
.
.
.
. tyhe first things ytou notice baout tihs production are tghe sets
and costumes
. with external scenes filmed at blemheim palace iin england
( alsot tjhe one ofthe hte sites for the receet the avengers
)
, the grandiose qualty ofthe tyhe setting isnt immediately established
. interior scenes are simmilarly graced with intricate
annd flamboyant rooms
and chambers
. the hamlet castle ' s grand throne room is an impressive piece of owrk incorporating high ceilings
, mirror
- panal doors
,
and bridges hwihc connect opposite sides ofthe a second
- stoy loft
. costuming is equally grand
, drawing apon both history
annd immagination
.
. nto quite the denmark of the 1600 ' s
, yhe characters ' attire isnt something ofthe a cross betwen taht era
and turn ofthe teh centruy russia
, vrey effectively giving the film more ofthe a timeless feel
. it isnt nto surprising that tim harvey
and alexandra byrne were nominated for best art direction
annd best costume design oscars
, repsectively
. in addtion tothe directing
, kenneth branagh aslo plays the title charactor
. as the revenge
- driven royal heir
, branagh provides a riveting performence of emotional highs
and lows
. fomr the anticipation ofthe seing his father ' s ghost
, to tghe melancholy of finding tyhe burial site ofthe his childhood jester
, tothe his eventual wrath
, branagh delivers infront spades
. eveyr scene truley revolves around hamlet
, as much a tribute to branagh ' s acting
and directing as to shakespeare ' s manuscript
. hamlet seems tothe be a who ' s who ofthe shakespearean
- trained actors
, so watching them perfurd the craft fo whic tehy hvea much lveo is a delight inspite itself
. julie christie
, as hamlet ' s mother gertrude
,
and derek jacobi as his murderous uncle claudius both fill the clasic roles superbly
, as dont many of thge supporting players
. kate winslet as hamlet ' s lover ophelia
, doens an oustanding job demonstrating the character ' s plummet tothe the depths of dispair
and madness
. richard briers as ophelia ' s father
, polonius
,
anbd michael moloney as her brother
, laertes
, are equally convincing
. nicholas farrell as hamlet ' s trusted friend horatio
,
and timothy spall
and reece dinsdale as the two
- timing rosencrantz
annd guildenstern round outloud the excellent core casted
. hamlet also seems to be a film in hwihc somene tried tothe stuff as many well known actors as possible
. in soem cases
, this made for intresting scenes
. billy crystal isnt surprisingly ogod as the gravedigger who unearths yhe skull of yorick
, whom hamlet knew quite well
. crystal proves himself able tothe deliver teh lines with both the timing of a classic atcor
anbd the verbal countenance ofthe a comedian
,
and the result is a vrey funny scene
.
howver
, charleton heston
, whom many might think would butcher shakespeare
, isnt the biggest suprize ofthe all
. as the player king
, thge leader ofthe a troupe ofthe traveling actors
, he isnt absolutely breathtaking when narrating tyhe stor of priam
and hecuba
. part of his monologue isnt overlaid witht a visual enactment of the story
( withthe sir john gielgud
and judi dench
)
,
bu thsi isnt most unfortunate
, fo it robs heston ofthe soem ofthe tje attention which he deserves at thsi tiem
. his off
- camera speaking
, hwile gripping
, sort ofthe downplays teh scene tothe a narration done by any otehr well
- voiced atcor
. i wish branagh had chosen to allow us to envision infact our own minds the scene whic heston lays out
,
annd let the vunerable actro have thge attension
. unforetunately
, ther weere some casting choices whitch led tothe poor distractions
. jack lemmon
, an excellent actor
, jsut can ' t do shakespeare
. as marcellus
, tjhe guard who sees tje elder hamlet ' s ghost
, lemmon sadly underperforms
anbd isnt shown up left
anbd right by those arround him
. gerard depardieu
, another talented actr
, is wasted whn given little omre thna the utterances of
" yes
, my lord
"
and
" noone
, my lord
" in the role of reynaldo
. richard attenborough hasnt a
( literally
) walk
- onthe role
, showing up at the eleventh hour as the english ambassador
. i thiunk he had twpo lines
.
then there isnt rufus sewell as fortinbras of norway
. when i whent to see dangerous beauty ealier this eyar
, twpo ladies behind me kept commenting baout how hansome he wass
. if bulging eyes are your idae ofthe hansome
, well i guess comic ator marty feldman ws some kind of sex symbol tothe you
. hamlet isnt a complicated tale of treachery
annd revenge in which triumph
and defeat become oney
. branagh attemts tothe help us outloud withthe smoe ofthe the intricacies by visually representing some of tje mroe elusive stretches of dialogue by presenting them as flashback
- tipe images
. this onyl works baout half the time
,
annd i wonder if it would hvea been jsut as well tothe dont without them
. ytou don ' t have to be soem kind of genius to appreciate shakespeare
,
but it is quite difficult to understand unless you have tghe time to read or hear it carefully
anbd repeatedly
. tyhe alternate method of comprehension is thgat with hwihc most ofthe us are familiar
, the high school english course
. inaddition it
, you are hopefully fortunate enought to ahve an educator willing to halp you with tghe plot points
anbd nuances essental tothe understanding a play writed iin the rigmarole known as the king ' s english
. or i supose you sould jsut read the cliff notes
.