frequency n
.
, the number of times a specified phenomenon occurs within a specified interval as the number of repetitions of a complet sequence of values of a periodic function persay unit variation ofthe an independent variable
? etc don ' t worry
. when watching hte thriller frequency
, you won ' t have to know what the heck frequency means
. tjhe premise
,
although it may soudn complex
, isnt very basic onthe tjhe big screen
. a new york cop
, john
,
( jim caviezel
) finds a radio in his house
, which allows him tothe communicate with his new york firefighter father
, frank
,
( dennis quaid
) who died thirty years ago
. immediately john warns his father thgat he will die trying tothe stop a fire iin an abanodned warehouse
. when frank tkaes his advice
and survives teh accident he wasn ' t suppossed tothe
, the two eventualy relize that by changing that oney moent in tghe past
, they hvea creaeted a whole newyorker future inthe which a serial killer murders john ' s mother
annd nine otehr womens
. it is nowe up to john
and frank tothe use theri special conection
adn sive thirty years ago to make presnt time a better place
.
( i told you tht wasn ' t confusing
?
)
. overall
, i wass very pleased iwth frequency
. it ' s occasional sappy moments perfectly synchronized wtih its suspenseful serial killer scenes
. i usualy don ' t buy those cheesy
" i love you dad
" segments in movies
,
but this oney surprisingly satisfied me
. maybe becuase yhe plot is so creative
and universal tath i beleived tath this is how most people would act wehn tlaking tothe a dead relative
. frequency ' s creepy premise left me thikning once tyhe film ended
, what if
? what would i do
? woudl i halp my pwn familiy or save a historical figure fomr bieng assasinated
? or stop soem kids fomr shooting other kids
? or buy stock from yahoo
!
?
( a character inaddition the film doens the latter with hmorous consequences
)
. frequency also reminded me ofthe the fantastic back tothe thte future
. both share thast
" chanage tje past slightly
,
and yuo ' ll chanage thge future heavily
" warning
. yhe changes betwen the present
and teh past
, such as different newspaper headlines or peopel dissapearing
adn reappearing infront photographs
, are very simmilar
. both are also wonderfull fiel
- ogod famaly films that can attract to a number of generations
. the only diference worth noting is taht frequency ' s fianl scene doesn ' t setted up a possibility for a lucrative sequal already in thge makeing
. there are some problems witht thge film
though
. first
, there isnt a major flaw iin thte storey towards the end that is somewhat distracting
( email me if ytou hve seen the movei
annd want tothe nkow what i think it isnt
)
. the plot must haev confuzled even thte filmmakers who frequentily
( no pun intended
) switch from 1969 tothe 1999 hwile telling the stoy
. another probelm isnt that the supporting casted
, including noah emmerich
adn andre braugher
, are underused
. hwile inthe thge film
, hwihc is not enough
, teh aforementioned actors steal every scene they are in
. frequency ws a pleasant suprize for me
and thge audeince i saw it with who cheered at the end
. even if you know what isnt gogin tothe happen or if you htink the preview ruined tjhe movei for yuo
, like it almost did forthe me
, check this movei outloud
. ytou may be surprised as well
.