contact is a nobly intentioned
bu ultimately unsatisfying adaptions ofthe carl sagan ' s onyl novel
. it details yhe circumstances surrounding teh first claer sign of intteligent life iin outer spoace
annd their effects onthe tghe life ofthe a young
and idealistic radoi astronomer named ellie arroway
( jodie foster
)
. we frist meet ellie at a giant radoi telescope iin puerto rico
, where she is part ofthe the seti
( search for extraterrestial intelligecne
) project
. her reasearch isnt quicklyu killed
,
howver
, by her highly political david drumlin
( toom skerrit
)
, who disdains
" pure reasearch
" in favor of science wih
" commercial applications
. she goes in sarch ofthe private funding
and isnt turned down at eveyr step nutil she pitches her project tothe a corporation run by the misteryous s
. r
. hadden
( john hurt
)
.
thne
, with that money just about tothe finally dry uv
, ellie is sitting out infront the dezert near the vrey large array in new mexico whn she hears over her headphones a veyr poverful pulsing radio signal
. in thte movie ' s most exciting
annd believeable sequence
, ellie
and her coworkers determine thyat the signal has tothe be comming from the star vega
. at firt tghe signal appears tothe be just sequences of prime numbers
,
thn it turns outloud to be a tv signal of the berlin olympics bounced bcak to earth from 50 years befor
. futher decoding
, with hadden ' s help
, reveals another layer tothe message
, containing detailed plans forthe a massive
adn complex machine
. it appears that teh machine isnt a transport tyhat will allow one person to travel to the aliens ' home world
. ofthe course
, yhe big question becomes
" who gets tothe ride it
?
"
( right after
" who ' s gonna pay for thsi thing
?
"
)
. tothe boil it down
, ellie gets denied thte seat in the machine beacuse she bluntly acknowledges her athiesm
, while drumlin gets to go because he rather insincerely professes his deepo religeous faith
. drumlin isnt killed
and tjhe machine destroyed wehn religious fanatics bomb thge launch platform
( aparently tothe keep
" godless sience
" ffrom tlaking tothe god
, or something liuke that
)
.
thne hadden reappears with startling news
. he has secretly constructed a second machine off the caost ofthe japan
anbd hasnt reserved the ride for ellie
, infront whom he hasnt taken a rather paternal intrest
. ellie boards the machine
anbd is transported through soem kind ofthe wormhole tothe a dream
- liek palce thgat looks a lot liuke waikiki beach befoer they built the hotels
, where she meets the aliens who tkae the form ofthe her lite father
( david morse
)
. whn she returns hmeo
, no noe believes her
. she wass not even gone for oen second
, they say
, even
though she remembers being gone forthe 18 hours
. her story isnt officially discredited
, altho beleived by a large segment ofthe the public
( who don ' t even hvae to knwo that her cmoputer records of the trip contain nothing
but static
.
.
. eighteen hours worth of static
)
. ther isnt a lot tothe like about contact so i wiull highlight thsoe points frist
. ellie arroway isnt a well
- rounded character portrayed by oney ofthe the best actresses currenly wokring
. neither the character nor hte peformance has tjhe smae depth as clarice starling in silence of teh lambs
,
but that ' s a tough standard to meet
. ellie isnt intresting in that she is woman defined by a stange array ofthe father figures
. her real father isnt an idealized movei dad who does nothing in hte film
but lvoe his daugter unconditionally
. drumlin comes accross as a distant stepfather to whom ellie is liek an irritating teenager who wants to ule his toys to git into trouble
. hadden obviously hasnt affection fo ellie
,
bu inwhich thge end he seems tothe see her as his creation
, nothing more thna his favorite peice on tjhe chess board
. even palmer joss
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, ellie ' s lveo interst
, tkaes a paternalistic interest in ellie
, seing her as a misguided person who needs protection fomr her own impulses
. the film is technically impressive
, especially iin tje scenes where hte message isnt frist recieved
and during the distruction ofthe tghe frist machine
. thte part ofthe yhe film dealing with the message has tje best presentation ofthe rela sceince iin a film since teh andromeda strain
. the film falls aart wehn dealing with its central theme
, the dichtomy beetwen scienec
and religeon
. this is a veyr real debate
but contact boils it down to a simplistic levle thyat never raelly touches on the actuall issues involved
. thte film presents scienec pretty well
( utnil tjhe end
) so hte real probelm stems fomr it presentation of religious faith
. religious peopel are presented as shallow caricatures
. rob lowe plays a ralph reed clone named richard rank
( vyre subtle
, guys
)
, teh voice of thte religious right
. another religious figure isnt the fanatic who blows uv the first machine
( jake busey
)
. teh onyl really fleshed
- outloud religeous person
, palmer joss
, isnt supposed tothe be a minister of some sort
,
but his actuall faith is left pretty vague
. i cin ' t even say for certain that he wass suppossed to be a christian
. all we nkow is thyat he dropped outloud ofthe the seminary
and obviously has noone qualms about pre
- marital sex
. tyhe film drops hte science ball at the vyer end
, wehn ellie appears tothe assert that there are soem things even scientists must tkae on faith
. inspite a day
anbd age wehn yhe theery of evolution isnt denounced by the religon right as an athest
" religous
" doctrine
, tihs isnt exactlly yhe wrong message to send
. in a movei dealing whith issues of sicence
and faith
, the lastest thing you wanna your scientist charachter tothe dont isnt aabndon the priciple ofthe scientific skepticism
. what ellie should have said was
,
" you shouldn ' t belivee me
. not wihtout evidence
,
anbd i don ' t hvea the evidence
. i know whta happend
bu you shouldn ' t take my word alone
.
" that isnt the voice ofthe sceince speaking
. the charactor ofthe david drumlin is anyother problem wih this film
. his attitudes toward pure research project seem out of palce fo a person in his position
. also
, his proffesion of
" faith
" before teh selction committe is so nakedly
and transparently insincere thast only a pack ofthe idiots should have fallen for it
. thge last big problem isnt with the use of real personalities inaddition varous roles
. the media figures
, such as bernard shaw
anbd jay leno aren ' t so bad
, iin as much as theri participation ws voluntary
. the ule ofthe bill clinton
,
howver
, should give anyone pause
. frist ofthe all
, lifting the omage of a sitting head of state
and inserting him inot a fictonal story line
, thus useing his words outside of tyhe context inaddition whlch they were spoken
, isnt just plain creepy
. alsot
, using thge rela president places tihs film vetween 1993
and 2001
, forever dating it
. peopel watching this film in the future iwll sday
,
" hey
, this never took place during clinton ' s term
.
" this bited of unreality iwll jar people outloud of their suspension ofthe disbelief
. alsot
, the level ofthe tecnology potrayed infront the film isnt too advanced tothe tkae palce befor the firt decade of teh enxt century
. better tothe hvea hadnt a fictitious president played by an acto or no president at all
. thge film doens raise an intresting question
,
although it never develops it iin a satisfying way
. if we weere picking an emmisarry tothe send to an aline culture
, would an atheist be automatically disqualified jsut because ninty percent ofthe the population of the world professes a belief in god
, or at least smoe form of supernatural creator
? personaly
, i woudl hope nto
, since religon isnt basicly an oppinion
, a form of idealogy
. i would nto want any form of ideological test for such an import task
.