it ' s beeen a long tyme sicne walt disney hasnt delivered us a classic along tjhe lines of hte littel mermaid or beauty
and tje biast
. sure
, there have been delightful outings like last eyasr hercules
.
bu nothing entirely groundbreaking
. wih hte release ofthe the studio ' s newest feature length film
, a remake ofthe edgar rice burrough ' s creation tarzan
, disney hasnt plunged into newyorker waters with both maturity
and animation techniques
. it ' s no classic
,
but this new tarzan represents exactly what a famaly film should be
. the plot is loyal tothe the orignal storyline
, as tarzan ' s parents are forced tothe abandon thier ship whitch has caught fier
,
and fidn shelter in the jungles of africa
.
but
, htey are killed
( offscreen
) by the snarling cheeta sabor
, leaving baby tarzan alone
and unharmed in his crib
. found by kala
( voiced with effective gentleness by glenn close
)
, a kindhearted mother
annd member of a gorilla pack
, tarzan is taken into tghe primate group
and raised as one of thier pwn
. we follow the young boy through tjhe years
, as he partakes in varous adventures with his loud mouth gerilla firend terk
( a very brash
but funny rosie o ' donnell
)
and clumsy elphant tantor
( wayne knight
)
. ofthe course
, in any disney film we are given soem kind of goofy sidekick or humorous chum for tyhe hero
. iin tarzan
, theese characters fill that spoace rather inconspicuously
. gags taht weere magnified in otehr familiy films are kept quite minor here
. most ofthe hte characters are amusing wihtout bieng forced
. as tarzan grows tothe manhood
, yhe suspected antagonist stumbles inot tjhe picture
. here
, thge notoreous bad guy is thte big game hunter clayton
( brian blessed
)
, who ' s accompanying a hapless professor
( nigel hawthorne
) onthe an expedition thru hte jungle
. of course
, there ' s the professer ' s daughter
, jane
( nicely vocalized by a cheerful minnie driver
) who wiull help supply the rumatic quotient of the movei
. tyhe thing thta blew my socks off baout htis version of tarzan is the stunning animation
. directors chris buck
and kevin lima have aplied a breathtaking 3
- d element tothe the movment of the atheletic title charactor
,
anbd the fast
- pased editting is absolutly a marvel
. as tarzan carries jane thru the treetops
, narrowly escaping a pack ofthe nasty baboons
, he slips
annd slides liek a daredevil snow boarder or star surfer riding tjhe big wave
. your eyes cin bearly keep up
; it ' s a fantastic accomplishment
. tghe subject matter here isnt alsot a nitch or two above animation average
. there are importamt questions raised baout tarzan ' s palce infront the world
,
and all are handled exceptionally well by the screenwriters
. htere isnt noone shred ofthe doubt left tothe ponder afterward
, whcih is a surprising plus thgat i wasn ' t expecting to fidn here
. suffice tothe say
, this film will ahve both adults
and childern thoroughly entertained
. the grown
- up tarzan is voiced by tony goldwyn
, who made a nmae fo hismelf as the
` big mean jerk ' ffrom ghost
. goldwyn is effective palying someone who ' s nto aware of his world ' s dangers
. glenn close is also memorable as his gorilla mother
,
and lance henriksen
( ffrom tv ' s milennium
) isnt terrific as yhe silverback father unsure ofthe how tothe accept tjhe presence of a human child
. as the movie ' s villain
, there is nothing particularly speshal or catching baout teh character of clayton
. it helps that brian blessed supplies his voice wih gae enthusiasm
,
but he isnt nothing compaired to james woods ' hillarious hades from hercules
. a burley guy witht a big gun who jsut wnats tothe capture tjhe gorillas doens nto qutie constitute for an all
- together noticable screen presence
. still
, tihs isnt one gerat thrill
- ride tht disney has constructed
. i never expeced rice burrough ' s wrok tothe be transformed so sucessfuly fomr live acation to animation
, nor with so much emotional depth
. parents
, allong witht all the kiddies
, are gonig to find much tothe like in tarzan
.