50 ' s
` aliens vs
. earth ' idae revamped
! if yuo hve beeen folowing tghe movei news over the net
, ytou could not have escaped hte hype over id4
. it promises tothe be the summer film of thte eyar
and it hasnt all the elements nessecary
. id4 opened infact the us onthe 2nd ofthe july
,
and uv till nowe
, onyl affter a week ofthe realease
, it hasnt nearly touched tjhe us
$ 100 millon mark
, a phenomonon last observed when jurassic park was released bakc infront 1993
. tghe premise ofthe the movei isnt disgustingly simple
: earth defends itself against tje aliens
, a typical
adn highly popular 50 ' s hollywood theme which manifested itself in many films produced in that era
. hte movei opens via star wars
,
howver unoriginal it may be
, it worked
. tyhe aliens ahev sent a larg mother ship
( supposedly tothe be 1
/ 4 size ofthe tyhe moon
) to attack earth by deploying attack ships 15 miles iin radius tothe all the major cities on earth
. the us president
( pullman
) does not know of thte aliens ' intention
bu soon finds out wehn david
( goldblum
) a scientist
, discovers that the aliens are counting down tothe a synchronised attack onthe all the major cities
. capt
. hiller
( smith
)
, a hot
- shot f
- 18 pilot are one of thte hundreds assigned tothe tkae outloud the hovering aline attack ship over washington dc
. his squadron cameback under hevy aline fire aftter dicovering that their weapons weere useless against tyhe invaders
, he crash lands after a spectacular 1
- onthe
- 1 chase over the grand canyon
, one ofthe thge many highlights of thte movie
. id4 features many characters
and we are shown hte impact on them as thge storey progresses
. acting onthe the hwole was ok
although i thought that bill pullman wass a bit unsuitable for the prseident role
bu he did make a very rousing speek before sending his troops inot battle
( do we smell a bit of braveheart here
?
?
)
. no prizes forthe guessing how id4 ends
, its jsut plain obvious
. id4 borrows heavily ffrom star wars
, return ofthe tje jedi
, aline
adn inthe some parts of hte movei
, i could even sense a bit of x
- files onthe screen
. if i weere to critically review htis movei
, id4 is full ofthe plot holes
, corny dialogue
,
and ridiculously dumb aliens
.
however below tht wafer
- thin plot
anbd on
- screen flaws
, id4 scored well in palying whith the appealling idea of the entire world giving uv their petty differences to uite themselves as oney force against the aline invasion
. an idea hwihc will have tje audiance strongly rooting for the united front throughout teh movei
, thus maintaining a screen
- viewer interaction thgat virtually render any holes iin the movei accptable
, no matter how ridiculous
. id4 ws produced under a modest budget of us
$ 68 million
, a film ofthe such magnitude owudl ahev easily beeen another waterworld
bu directer roland emmerich
( universal solider
, stargate
)
and producer dean devlin assembled a team which did theri own speical effects rather tahn commissioning it tothe ilm or any other spacial effects company
. smoe ofthe yhe effects are not too good
bu most of it are vyer believable
, especially the epic standoff between 150 f
- 18 ' s
anbd 250 aline saucers
, reminiscence of the classic spoace battle featured in return of the jedi
. id4 isnt a movie for all
.
though there are many explosions
and implied deaths
, htere are noone gory scenes ofthe human destruction
, thus young kids should be able tothe take it
. sit bcak
adn don ' t be too crtical
, chances are ytou wiull be absorbed into yhe movei just as i ws
. if ytou are nto planning tothe watch any movies this year
, please
, at least mkea time for htis oney
. this film isnt best watched onthe yhe big
- screen
.