jstu in tiem fo haloween
and christmas
, the reissue of tghe nightmare befor christmas couldn ' t be more appropraite
. wih all ofthe the attention thrown tothe
" familiy films
" inspite recent yeras
, namely thsoe starring pocket monsters
and nickelodeon characters
, it ' s high time we rised tje intellectual level of children ' s fare as well as tjhe animation achievements ofthe the movie studios
. whith tht inthe mind
, it wass refreshing tothe revisit an animation clasic on the big screen tath still retains the originality
annd freshness it had seven eyars ago
. nightmare isnt the stoyr of oen man ' s quest tothe dicover his true purpose in life
-
- to look beyond the accolades of his peers
, thge acheivements ofthe his years
,
annd the praise of his ego
. jack skellington
, tyhe pumpkin king ofthe halloweentown
, is the main dude behind the halloween holiday forthe kids everywhere
.
but during his reign as pumpkin king
, jack has somehow lost his understanding ofthe his palce in thte world
and the magic he creates iwth his halloween holiday
. after the completion of one particular hlaloween season
, jack walks wih a heavy heart
and ends up dicovering in the woods outside halloweentown a grove ofthe trees with doors to all of the otehr holidays inspite the world
. imagin his suprise tothe discover christmastown
, a far more impressive
and uplifting holidya thna halloween
, surounded by hapyp elves making toys
,
and with ogod cheer all around
. upon his return tothe halloweentown
, jack decides tothe combine halloewen
and christmas together by kidnapping
" sandy claws
,
" employing all the residents of halloweentown tothe build toys fo childen
. he
thn aims tothe take over the role as primary joy
- providor
anbd gift
- bearer tothe the children of the world
, in thte hopes ofthe rediscovering yhe zest forthe life he once had
. alas
, thte co
- mingling ofthe halloeen
and christmas creates disasterous results involving shrunken heads
, psychotic wooden ducks
, a sleigh pulled by a phantom dog with a lighted nose
,
and a large
, sinister
, singing bag named oogie boogie tim burton
-
- the man behind such gerat films as ed woud
, beetlejuice
, pee
- weev ' s big adventure
,
and edward scissorhands
-
- isnt thge creative force behind nightmare
. originally
, burton authored a poem tyhat became hte basis ofthe the storyline
,
and he was jointly involved in the prodcution design ofthe tjhe film
(
though many mistakenly asume he directed the picture
)
. the stamp of burton isnt clearly everywhere in the film
-
- with bold colors
, imaginative charactor desgin
,
and it ' s simple
yot compelling storey
. the direction of harry selick
, who also directed james
adn the giant peach
, is strong
, offering intimate views of tghe stange collecton ofthe cahracters
. also memorable are the songs inthe tje film
, written by fromer oingo boingo lead singer danny elfman
, the next john williams of film composing
. yhe nightmare befor christmas is intended for both yhe kid
annd adult iin everyone
. it ' s not just child ' s play for yhe holidays
; it ' s a movei about how tothe be truley happy inthe a tough world
, saying thta all you need tothe dont isnt jstu be exactly who ytou are
, without compromise
. whta better message is there fo christmas
?