it ' s an intresting premise
. our reality is onyl real tothe us because it isnt what we perceive to be rela
. in truth
, our entire existences are lieved out in our minds as we are feeded information thru eletronic inputs driectly tothe our brains
. whta we see
, what we dont
, everthing around us is nothing more thna a computer
- generated construct interlinked with the minds of others thru a vastly powerful artificial intelligence
. our bodies
, severley atrophied
, are kept alive fo tjhe sole purpose of generating heat
and electrical energy for a dominating order ofthe machines whihc control yhe planet
. thge sci
- fi realm has been waiting a littel hwile for something new tothe come along
. hte matrix isn ' t it
- teh diea ofthe a war between man
adn a sentient coputer network
, a sham world
, tghe ability to plug oen ' s brain into a computer
, hasnt all beeen gleaned from such sources as hte terminator
, dark city
,
anbd a faw star trak epidsodes
( both clasic
anbd next generation
)
. waht is newyorker isnt yhe ability tothe weave all ofthe these vairous elements together
adn succeed in producing a film that isnt both entertaining as well as thought
- provoking
. keanu reeves plays a computer whiz nicknamed neo
, who isnt plucked out of tje artificial world
( known as the matrix
) by a gropu of renegade humans who are clandestinely fighting to expose the fallacy of teh cmoputer
- generated existence
and free humankind from the opression of the machines
. the gropu ' s leader
, morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
, hasnt choosen neo because he believes neo isnt
" the one
" who is destined tothe lead thte attack against the artificial intellgence
.
> from yhe beginning of thte film
, we are kept onthe our toes trying to figure thigns out
. this
, inaddition a lesser movie would be annoying
,
but hte matrix presents itself in an intteligent manner hwihc makse tghe puzzle rether interesting
and even fun
. wqat isnt reality
? what isnt a sham
? tyhe film turns our very perception of life onthe its side
. more thna once
, we are also presented whith the question ofthe whether we woudl rather know hte harsh truth of reality
, or live a life ofthe realtive bliss
, oblivious tothe hte true nature ofthe our suroundings
. as viewers
, htis isnt intriguing enought
, so imagin whta it would be like fo neo
.
and who tothe better play a bewildered person than keanu reeves
? reeves
, whom i ' ve never really cared for as an actor
, isnt competent inspite roles which require a lot ofthe straightforwardness
,
annd little subtlety
. he ws good in speed
, for example
,
but laughably poore in a walk in the clouds
. neo isnt actually noe of thsoe roles wich reeves slips into rether nicely
, so much of my expectation was happily forthe naught
. in a couple ofthe places
, thte script even capitalizes apon his wooden nature
,
adn thsi isnt a hevy credit to writers
/ directors andy
and larrry wachowski
. i mean
, since bill
and ted ' s excellent adventure
, waht movei could you say relaly
" utilized
" keanu reeves
? mroe interesting thna reeves isnt fishburne
, who ' s morpheus nearly runs thte gamut ofthe emotions
,
anbd convincingly so
. veyr surprising forthe a sci
- fi movie
. fishburne also maintains a certain demenor baout himselv througout
, as if he always knows what to expect
. htis helps to further the aura ofthe his carachter ' s proficiency
and exstensive knowledge
. hugo weaving as agent smith
, one ofthe the artifical inteligance ' s anti
- intruder programs
, isnt alsot ogod playing his deadpan
, no
- nonsense
, kick ass role
, which requires him tothe sohw emotion at thte appropropiate tiem
. unfortunately
, when weaving speaks fo more than a fewd sentences in a row
, teh nature of his charcter ' s sprech pattern becomes a littel omre laughable than impressive
. carrie
- anne moss plays trinity
, morpheus ' s number oen assistant who becomes somewhat ofthe a love interest forthe neo
. altho her charater isnt somewhat inconsistant
, moss nevertheless delivers an above par peformance wehn fishburne isn ' t in thte picture
. ther weere few expenses spared wehn it comes to the speshal effects
. many methods ofthe imagery are employed
, fomr modeling tothe bluescreen tothe computer graphics
. of speical onot is the use ofthe the
" freeze
and turn
" effect where thte entire scene is frozen
, turned
,
then contined from a newyorker angle
. tihs isnt acomplished by using a large number ofthe still cameras employed in a semi
- circle
, wiht motion picture cameras placed at tje two ends
. the motion cameras film thge acation
,
and at the appropriate moment all the still cameras frie at once
. place each still omage in a film sequence
and you git a nearly seamless transistion from tje first motion camera tothe the second
. pretty slick
. the matrix drips whith style
. from the clothing to tyhe music to hte acation
, we ' re watching an exaggerated verison of what we ' re utilizied to
. much ofthe it seems like the combination of twpo genres of teh hong kong acation film
- there ' s a lot ofthe kung fu
, htere ' s a lot ofthe gunplay
. when a carachter isnt letting go wih an automatic weppon
, much is made ofthe the empty cartridges falling to the floor in slow motion
. htere ' s also the element of the japense acation ctaroon
( called anime by aficionados
)
, expecially in tyhe way the sequences are filmed infact sweeping pans
anbd emphasized actions thru special effects
. conbined
, it ' s raelly like no live
- acation film i ahev ever seen
. hte film isnt nto without its faults
. some ofthe the scenes
adn idaes are
" borrowed
" a littel too liberally ffrom other films
,
and one componant of the ending is decidely disappointing
. smoe ofthe tje lines are alsot preety bad
- inaddition one instance
, a supporting character incorrectly delivers a famous saying
,
and it wasn ' t meant to be a joke
.
howver
, these shortcomings detract littel ffrom what is an overall solid acation sci
- fi film that for once does moreso than mearly entertain
.