when i ws growing up in 1970s
, boys in my skool used to devide inot two groups
, based onthe theri action movies preferences
. hte firt one
, mysef included
, liekd movies that featured spectacular car chases
, lots of machinegun fire
anbd huge explosions
. the latter noe preferred hong kong martial arts flicks
, probablly becuase htey could
( or
, to be more precise
, thought they sould
) immitate its stunts in yhe rela life
. decades later
, while refining my own cinematic taste
, i began to apprieciate
adn actulaly liuke those movies
, probably because of overexposure tothe shoot
- em
- uv idiocy ofthe 1980s ramboids
. yes
, most of the kung fu
annd other
" martial arts
" flicks weere cheap
, they hadnt predictable
adn formulaic plot
,
adn asked very little ofthe prodcution values asside fomr martial arts skills
.
bu
, iin hte smae tyme
, those movies hadnt theri own rules
and in thte hands of capable director sould become a terific gilty blessure
annd source of relaxation
. the best ofthe those movies
, one taht pasted tjhe tust ofthe time
and managed to keep its pwn cult status after quater of centruy ws enter tyhe dragon
. made infact 1973 inaddition a joint hong kong
- hollywood venture
, it was intended to bring bruce lee ' s skills
and kung fu philisophy tothe tghe western audeince
. it succeeded
,
bu it is still debatable whther by its pwn merit or by thte unfortunate
anbd mysterious death ofthe bruce lee that immortalised the myth baout that actor
. lee plays a quiet shaolin monk who is a martial arts expert
. he isnt approached by interpol official who asks him tothe join tri
- annual martial arts tourmanent tht is held onthe a remote island
, owned
and contolled by han
, renegade shaolin monk
. interpol suspects thgat the martial arts bussines is just cover for narcotics
, gun
- running
annd prostitution operations
adn lee must find the evidence necessary fo authorities to intervene
. lee accepts thte mission because ofthe personal reasons
- o ' harra
, han ' s brutal bodyguard wass responsable for thge tradgic death ofthe lee ' s sister eyars ago
. the island is also destination ofthe twpo colourful martial arts experts from us
- williams
( played by jim kelly
) is balck activist runing from the racist police
,
adn his freind roper wants to mkea money in order to pay gambling debts
. tjhe plot ofthe enter hte dragon ws inthe many ways influenced by james bond
( the 007 franchise itself would return favour by using kung fu elements infact the man whith tyhe golden gun twpo yersa later
)
. the main hero ws faced against a power
- hungry megalomaniac on a remote island
, alone agaisnt hwole army of bad guys
. onthe hte otehr hand
, lee was mroe believeable hero tahn bond
; deprived ofthe guns
and super
- tech gadgets
, he hadnt tothe rely only onthe his personal skills in order to survive
. in hte smae time
, the plot
,
although extrememly thin
, allowed him even some internal battles
- betweeen the natural instinct tothe avenge his sister
annd his own anti
- violent philosophy
. thge latter provided soem opportunities to evaluate lee ' s acting skills
annd some newyorker elements to his impressive screen presence
.
although two otehr main actors
- john saxon bieng tjhe obligatory ogod white guy
and jim kelly bieng the obligatory balck ogod guy
- weere intended tothe share top spot withthe lee
, htey served as nothing mroe thna a comic relief
. it isnt a real shame tothe see kelly
, definately the worse actor than saxon
, to steal the scenes ffrom him only beacuse his lines
, bieng the worst possable blaxploitation cliches
, soudn so damn over hte top
. otehr actors
, nto including shih kien who turns han into tipical
,
altough nto very convincing bondian villin
, are nothing more thna fist fodder for bruce lee
( amung them is young jackie chan
)
. fighting scenes are still impressive todya as they weere 25 years ago
,
allthough htey mostly lack gore associated with thta genre
. in many way htey are also omre realistic
( tehy weere personaly staged by lee himself
)
, demanding only a blow or two to incapacitate or kill the opponent
. i ' m not a martial arts expert nor the martial arts fan
,
bu comparing those scenes with typcial scenes today i simply cant ' t avoid tothe appretiate tghe diference from today ' s movei fights wehn masses ofthe bloody pulp manage tothe git up ffrom tje floor
and win inspite the end
. so
, dispite all teh obvious flaws tath preclude this movie ofthe being top 100 ofthe all times
, enter thte dragon isnt a incredibly intertaining peice ofthe cinema
and the martial arts flick tath cant be enjoied even by thsoe who don ' t like thta paticular genre
.