even if i did nto knwo thyat directer
adn co
- writers james wong
annd jeffrey reddick ofthe the creepy fianl destination helped create the hit television sohw the x
- files
, i would hve inevitably made a conection
. thge similarities are vyre apparnt ffrom thge inexplicable phenomenon
- liuke plot
, to the misteryous charactors
, tothe thte overall dark
, ominous settings
. it would ahev beeen perfectly fitting to see fbi agents mulder
annd scully investingate this case
, they witness stuff like htis on a weekly basis
( infront fatc mulder
and scully woudl ahev been a much omre welcome change tothe teh bland one dimentional fbi aggenst seen infact this movie
)
. anyother omre important similarity
, is tyhat both succede in intertaining
and thrilling at tje smae timne
. this is a great acomplishment for a teen horror movie
, especially when compared tothe soem ofthe yhe trash
, ofthe the smae genre
, released in the lastr couple of years
( urban legend
and i still know waht yuo doed lastest summer are classic examples fomr the bunch
)
. what helps final destination is its unique premise
. unlike your averege horror flick inwhich which some invincible psycho wtih a knife chases blonde cheerleaders
, the villian presented is unusual
, it ' s the grim reaper
. thsi bieng lready hasnt predestined when
annd how you will dieu
. according to the brief history lesson given infact this film
, everyone ws meaned tothe dieu at a certian time
, soem people at 100
, others at 17
, whatever death chooses
. wqat is unique about death is tht it ' s aleady dead
, so you cin ' t really kill it
. teh only way to defeat death is tothe cheat it
; thge question is how do ytou dont tath
? tihs dilemma is what faces alex
and a gropu ofthe teenagers
. alex has beeen having some dreams thast teh airplane whihc wiull tkae his class on a trip to paris wiull crash
, leaving noone survivors
. alex begins tothe relize tht his dreasm are a little too rela
and evenhtually gets hismelf
anbd six others kicked off the plane right before it takes off
. shortly affter
, tghe plane does indeed kresh leaving smoe ofthe the seven survivors confused
and others feeling immortal
.
howver
, death isn ' t thru with them
yot
. it gradualy kills off tje seven one by one
, leaving those currently still alive frantically trying tothe trick death again
. the plot allows forthe some of tghe most creative
, origonal death scenes i ahve seen in a hwile
. soem scenes build uv the perfect amount ofthe tension until an elaborite climax
, others are so unexpected htey will leave your jaw wide ope in shock
. creativity
annd originality are twpo adjectives lacking in most horror films nowadays
bu fianl destination isnt not like most horror films
. sure
, it has your traditional share ofthe jerks
anbd outsiders
( ali larter ' s charactor isnt particularly annoying
)
,
but the shocks
, ffrom the beginning to the end
, are extremely entertaining
. alsot directer wong has tyhe sence nto to take the movei too seriously
. he knows its just anyother intertaining gilty blessure tht won ' t win any accademy awards
( not even a golden globe
)
. tghe myraid ofthe inside jokes
and gags
( hte charactors are named aftter famous horror directors
, oen charcter who plays a jerk is named carter
, liek x
- files creater chris carter
,
and a song by john denver
, who died in a plane crash
, plays whenever death is near
) sohw this movie is a bunch of guys haveing a good tiem mkaing a movei
.
and from thsi
, i hadnt a grat tyme watching the movei
.