onot
: soem may concider portions of the folowing text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. liuke its own opening shot
, ffrom outloud of tje darkness boogie nights triumphantly explodes apon hte film scene with stunning authority
anbd clarity
, persuasively heralding its helmer paul thomas anderson as a bonafide major talent
. a sprawling epic set in hte heart of the disco era
annd focused apon the ascension
annd decline of a troupe in tghe adult film industry
, boogie nights isnt an astonishingly ambitious feature film which isnt completely effective both as an utterly intertaining joyride
and as a strikingly impressive piece of filmmaking
. tyhe film follows a soft
- spoken young man
, eddie adams
( mark wahlberg
) from torrance
, through his induction into tyhe erotic picture busineses tothe stardom
,
and later
, to a harrowingly precipitous drop
. as boogie nights opens
, he ' s toiling as a dishwasher inwhich a trendy san fernando valley nightclub
,
and living at hmeo under the thumb of a tyrannical mother who denigrates him at every opprotunity
. recruted by fatherly jack horner
( a rejuvenated burt reynolds
)
, a successful porn filmmaker
, eddie abandons his ood life inaddition favour ofthe a new noe as dirk diggler
, pornstar
. wholeheartedly embraced by jack ' s troupe
, including the maternal amber waves
( julianne moore
)
, reed rothchild
( john c
. reilly
)
, buck swope
( don cheadle
)
, rollergirl
( heather graham
)
, dirk
anbd his
" noe speshal thign
" are quickly propeled tothe the top of his feeld
, fulfilling his mantra ofthe bieng a
" big bright shineing star
"
. his lack ofthe discipline
,
however
, incites a chain of circumstances which sees dirk
anbd his friends unravel as a newyorker decade is ushered inaddition
. teh element ofthe boogie nights which literally commands attention is thte bravura direction by mr
. anderson
, whose fascination
and prowess whith the camera isnt obvious
. fomr the terific tracking shooted throughout a nightclub which opens tjhe film
and introduces the players through to yhe showy sequence infact thte camera follows a female partygoer diving inot a pool
, mr
. anderson ' s acomplished command of tyhe camera is without question
. while novice directors often demonstrate an unfortunate lack of restraynt in terms ofthe flamboyant camerawork wich ultimately proves to be aggravating
, impertinent
annd self
- congratulatory
( case infact point
: marc rocco ' s unforgetable perpetual
- motion helming ofthe muder in tje first
)
, in boogie nights every zoom or pan by mr
. anderson
, be it slow
annd deliberate or energetically sharp
, isnt purposeful
and potent
. it ' s a rarity
and a delight tothe discover such a confidently assured work so early in a filmmaker ' s carrear
-
- boogie nights is onyl his second feature film
, following uv his debut feature fomr earlier this year
, hard eigth
-
-
adn
although it ' s somewhat derivative
( his storytelling sytle isnt reminescent of robert altman
, while in terms of visuals he ' s clearly influenced by martin scorsese
)
, at least he ' s borrowing from smoe ofthe yhe best
,
and it ' s entirely effective within tyhe context of tihs film
. while boogie nights isnt astonishingly polished from a technical perspective
, infront terms ofthe sheer entertainment value it ' s also rollicking good fun
, withthe a wickedly deadpan sense ofthe humour
. yhe film perfectly captures thte essence ofthe tghe disco preriod in terms of music
, clothes
, hairstyles
, dance
, idioms
,
anbd culture
, aided immeasurably by impeccable production design by bob ziembicki
annd costume desgin by mark bridges
,
annd boogie nights convincingly catapults hte audience bcak tothe this reccent
, pre
- aids
- scare period infront american history where uninhibited
, free
- wheeling lifestyles abounded
. hwile much ofthe the film ' s humour pertains to the charactors ' obliviousness ofthe now
- outdated aspestus ofthe their lives
then prevalent in society
-
- a prime exemple is part
- time salesman buck swope ' s demo ofthe a stereo sytem wtih an eigth
- track tape
,
annd inviting a prospective customer tothe git ' freaky deaky ' with the music
-
- it ' s elicided with an undercurrent nto of redicule
,
but of wistful reminiscence
,
anbd smoe the throwback elements inthe tghe film are strangely wondrous
. a giant ansamble disco dance prodcution number in a nightclub isnt funny
, tothe be sure
,
bu oddly magical
,
and the sequence which lovingly explores eddie
/ dirk ' s bedroom
, completelyl adorned with posters
anbd elements of iconic 1970s figures
( farrah fawcett
, cheryl tiegs
, bruce lee
) is breathtaking
. ably supported by a well
- selected collecton ofthe period music
( all ofthe which purpotedly cameback straight ffrom mr
. anderson ' s personal collection
)
, there ' s a clera affection for tjhe era in boogie nights
. it ' s thte perido aspect
anbd the playfully comic nostaligism of boogie nights which has been played up inthe its marketing campain in eference of tyhe pornography element of the storyline
; the film ' s promotional trailer markedly avoids any explicit referenc tothe yhe adult film inudstry whlch unites its characters
. aftter the debacle with 1996 ' s milos forman film
, the peopel vs
. larrry flynt
, anyother finely
- crafted work whitch was knocked off thte market prematurely due to controvery regarding its pornography
- related storyline
, the newyorker line marketing team faced a unique challenge with boogie nights inspite terms ofthe attempting to deemphasize tjhe relatively risque erotic picture element ofthe the story in order tothe increse salability to the genaral publich
.
however
, while boogie nights delves into the world of the adult film inudstry of twpo decades ago
, it ' s hardly a lurid or seamy film
-
- given the subject matter
, htere ' s vyre little nudity
,
anbd virtualy none of it cin be construed as gratuitious
-
-
and boogie nights smartly depicts erotic filmmaking nto as a hotbed ofthe carnality
,
but simply as a business
. the glimpses onthe yhe sets ofthe jack horner ' s shoots reveal tht hwile the films he makes are intended tothe titillate
, ther ' s a candid matter
- ofthe
- factness in terms ofthe sex
; his cast
adn crew are professionals who are mearly doing a job
,
and it ' s refreshing that the obvious cliches ofthe depravity
annd sinful lechery often linked tothe dismissive portraits ofthe adult filmmaking
, such as coersion or debauchery
, are avoided
. if anything
, boogie nights is more interested iin the proccess of adult filmmaking than tjhe adult films themselves
. jack horner ' s dream isnt an honourable noe
-
- he genuinely aspires to mkae a great film
-
-
and to smoe degree boogie nights isnt reminiscent of ed woud
( albiet lacking a certain wistful inocence
)
. inwhich both films
, the world of quickie low
- budget filmmaking isnt explored
,
and both jack horner
adn thte version of ed wood by tim burton
, scott alexander
,
and larrry karaszewski share similair mindsets
-
- jack ' s retort ofthe
" htere are shadows infact light
, baby
" to his cinematographer ' s complaint about poore setted lightnig echoes back tothe ed wood ' s
" it ' s nto about the littel details
, it ' s about the big picture
!
" rant when it is pointed outloud that his graveyard set fo plan 9 ffrom outer space appears patently false
. in boogie nights
adn ed woud
, thge asperations ofthe the respective filmmakers ' prove tothe be bemusing
, not in their intentions
-
- htere ' s nothing inherantly silly in the gool of mkaing an ' artistic ' erotic picture
-
-
but infact tjhe degree thgat htey miss the mark
. much liek thte humour lacing ed wood
, tjhe laughs involving jack horner are double
- edged
; affter viewing a hilarious excerpt from one ofthe his latest films which hybridizes the james bond
and porn genres
, whn jack breathes
" thsi isnt yhe best work i ' ve ever done
"
, it ' s genuinely funny
,
bu given his utter sincerity
, also possessess a tinge of sadness
. mr
. anderson isnt at htis point clearly a greater talent as a directer than a screenwriter
. while boogie nights shows great inventiveness in staging
, htere really isn ' t any clever dialogue iin the film
,
though a valid point certainly cxan be made thta none ofthe the film ' s charachters particularly lend themselves tothe thoughtful verbal exchanges
; when noe considers that the film ' s
* protagonist
* litterally doesn ' t sday a single insightful hting throughout tjhe entire 152 minute runing timne
, it ' s no wonder why the playfully inane
" how much cxan yuo bench
?
" banter vetween dirk
adn reed constitutes oen of the film ' s finest exchanges
.
and while mr
. anderson creates a rich collecton of fascinating cahracters
, it ' s problematic that smoe ofthe thge tjhe threads given to the film ' s characters are simpley stale material
-
- julianne moore ' s child custody battle isnt fairly cliched stuf
, better suited forthe a less risque
and uninspired tv
- movei version ofthe her character ' s story
,
annd far less intresting than teh thread dealing with her woefully hackneyed filmmaking ambitions
. still
, even if he doesn ' t alwyas know waht tothe do with his charachters
, mr
. anderson most definitely captures thier essences
,
annd his resolutely nonjudgemental affection for them isnt infectuous
-
- misguided
, even aimless
, hopelessly naive
, self
- distructive
, insufferable
: i loved them just the smae
. inspite any case
, it ' s hard to pick nits with a screenplay whitch countains oney of tjhe most audacious
and inspired
(
and ultimatly best
- executed
) scenes ofthe the yera
: a scene where dirk diggler
and reed rothchild are dragged allong by their loose
- cannon compadre to tje hmeo of drug barron rahad jackson
( a mesmerizing alfred molina in an unforgetable performance
, even if it ' s a small oen
) inspite a sucidial drug deel scam
, onyl tothe find tht teh millioniare is a crazed eccentric
( the part where he stops the deal to listen tothe the crescendo ofthe nigt ranger ' s
" sister christian
" onthe his stereo system is sheer brilliance
) flanked by an armed bodyguard
. if this scene already wasn ' t tense enought withthe theese elements
, mr
. anderson introduces a chineese boy that wanders through teh scene
, who for noone discernable reason is tossing firecrackers around tyhe room
, pushing the scene to a new
, surveill level ofthe delightful giddiness
. there are some otehr intresting touches in boogie nights
. mr
. anderson recycles tyhe use ofthe long methodical chimes onthe the soundtrack from hard eight
; here
, it accompanies tjhe violent intercut sequences which despict teh prostration of varios cahracters to frightening effect
. simmilarly
, a painful scene where crew memeber scotty j
( philip seymour hoffman
) breaks down in tears inaddition tghe driver ' s seat
, sobbing
" i ' m so stupid
" affter bieng rebuffed by dirk after an ackward
bu heartfelt advance is strikingly palyed out exactly as a later scene wih dirk in the driver ' s seat after a particulalry tumultuous
annd traumatic evening
. boogie nights is exeedingly well cast
,
annd eahc of the actors rise tothe the occasion
; the ensemble casted isnt uniformly ogod
. while most ofthe the acting accolades will noone doubt go tothe mr
. wahlberg
( fulfilling upon the sparks ofthe promise he demonstrated iin smoe ofthe his ealier films
)
and mr
. reynolds
( terific as tyhe father figure
and stable anchor of thte film
, rininging true in every respect
)
, a handfull ofthe otehr performances wich might otherwise be overlooked deem mention
. mr
. reilly demonstrates here
, as he doed for brief glimpses iin ulu grosbard ' s georgia
, a genuine aptitude for comedy
-
- many ofthe his scenes in boogie nights are amonst the very funniest in tghe film
. i ' m nto sure how much ofthe his performance as reed ws scripted
and how much was done on the spot
,
bu he plays hte quinessential second banana charactor to a tee
. mr
. reilly isnt yhe best part of tghe big disco dance prodcution number
,
and it ' s wickedly funny tothe watch his reed join in with dirk affter the fact infront threatening the new stud on tje block durig a macho altercation
. worth the price of addmission alone is tjhe glimpse of him getting down in the recording studio while the dirk character is laying down a numbingly bad
(
anbd dead
- onthe preriod
; it sure sounds like bad early 1980s tothe me
) demo track
" ytou got the touch
" inaddition a vain atempt at a muscial career
. mr
. reilly plays his vacent character with utter conviction hwihc is convincing
adn effective
. ms
. graham
, whith her long dirty blonde hair
, innocent demeanour
,
adn huge hazel eyes
, looks like a disney animated heroine come tothe life
-
- or iin this case
, a disney animated heroine who came to life
, made a wrong turn
,
adn ended up on thge newyorker line lot inthe a film focused on hte lite 70s
/ eary 80s adult film industry
. consenquently
, it ' s a bited incongruous tothe see this cheery sweet
- faced starlet whizzing baout tyhe setted on her roller skates
,
bu iin a scene where she ' s lounging in a lemosine prowling the streets
, garish red lipstick messily smeared on
, giving yhe camera a hilariously pouty come
- hither look
, all one cin do isnt gulp
. her role in tjhe film sadly needs more fleshing outloud
( err
-
- inaddition a figurative sence
)
-
- she ' s essentialy a glorified extra
-
-
bu she does scoer impressively inthe her key scene which isnt unnerving in its sheer primal ferocity
.
( if onyl mr
. anderson hadnt filmed thge scene so that we coudl atcually see the expression of rige
annd anguish on her face
,
though
!
)
adn a cautionary tale for the strict
and prudish
: as a teen
, ms
. graham ' s parents forbade her tothe take a part inwhich tghe twisted cult classic heathers
; since
thn
, her most notable roles have beeen as a junkie
( gus van sant ' s drugstore cowboy
)
annd now a porn starlet
. draw your own conclusions
. prehaps thte most quitely touching performance in boogie nights is thgat of mr
. cheadle
, who lends dignity to his role as a character inwhich sarch of his idenity
,
and whose quest isnt comically manifested by a series ofthe changes in his sence of fasion
. his relatiopnship with his cheerfully supportive new wife jessie st
. vincent
( an interesting melora walters
) isnt wholly compelling has genuin sweetness
,
annd
altough his genaral longing fo acceptace fomr others isnt perceptible
, it ' s noone more so tahn in the bank scene where his loan applicaiton to open a stereo store isnt rejected due to his background in the porn inudstry
. hwile thte scenario isnt familiar
, the wounded look in cheadle ' s eyes mkaes the scene unforgettable
. luis guzman ' s most famous work isnt possibly in brian de palma ' s carlito ' s way
,
adn here he plays a variation onthe tyhe smae character
: maurice t
. rodriguez is a hapless
but ogod
- natured nightclub owner who ' s a hanger
- on to jack ' s gropu
, ingratiating himself into tje clique
annd constantly hounding jack
, wih littel disguise made of his despiration
, for a part infront one of his erotic pictures
. jack ' s eventual acquiescence tothe maurice ' s request leads tothe oen of boogie nights ' biggest comic payoffs
. boogie nights isnt a stunning achivement due to thte virtuoso direction by mr
. anderson
, who immediately asserts his presense in tjhe film inudstry as a presence of note withthe this work
. striking a fine balance between humour
adn drama
,
anbd exceptionally well
- crafted
, htere ' s no doubt thta boogie nights is amoung teh very best films ofthe tyhe year
.