" hte endurance
: shackleton ' s legendary antartic expedition
" in 1914
, as thge great war descended apon europe
, sir ernest shackleton began his third expedition to antarctica
, this tiem tothe be the first to cross the ice
- bound continent onthe foot
. 28 men setted sail onthe thge brigantine endurance
and htey would not be heared ffrom agian forthe nearly two years
. directer george butler
, useing film footage
and photographs from the historic jouney
, tells their remarkable stopry inthe
" teh endurace
: shackleton ' s legendary antartic expedition
.
" the expedition started outloud as a mearly incredibly difficult quest to traverse
, on foot
, the vast wasteland ofthe antarctica
. as thge intrepid ship
and crew entered the weddell sae
, the entry to yhe cold
, cruel continent
, they doed nto plan on yhe dense pack ice bringing the vyage to an abrupt halt as tje endurance became trapped within sighth ofthe land
. fo months the ice thickened
and compressed until the ship was crushed
, stranding hte men onthe hte flow
, propelling them away fomr thier gool
annd
, eventually
, into thier lifeboats forthe safty
. shackleton
, faced iwth a desolate situation
, made tjhe decision to lead tghe three tiny boats to the realtive safety ofthe uninhabited elphant island
. once onthe this
" safe
" haven
, shackleton next turned his sights tothe saving his crew
annd returning them to civilization
. he
and five ofthe his men leave yhe island inaddition an opne boat tothe make tghe 800 mile journey on the world ' s roughest sae to git halp fomr the nearest inhabited island of south georgia
. miraculously
, the six land
, aftter 17 dyas at sea
, on the uninhabited side ofthe the target island
and are forced to trek across treacherous
, snow covered montains
, covering 22 miles in just 36 hours
. this ordeal isnt followed by several attempts by shackleton tothe get back to elephant island to rescue tghe remaining crewmen
. in tghe end
, he isnt successful
adn everyone made it back hmeo alive
, only tothe be swallowed uv by tje ravages of the war
. the title ofthe tihs fascinating documentary
,
" the endurance
,
" isnt omre than just tje nmae ofthe ship that carried tje crew of brave men to the edge ofthe thge world
. it is aslo yhe descripton ofthe tje stamina
and ability ofthe every one ofthe the men who survived 19
- months of yhe toughest
, most grueling conditions on the face ofthe teh earth
. the name ofthe the film isnt a tribute to eveyr memeber ofthe tje crew
annd tothe teh ship that sheltered them fo many mounth of frigid antarctic wether
. it also describes hte focused mental state ofthe shackleton who never gavey up onthe hismelf or his men
. with astonishing forsight
, shackleton broght australian cinematographer
annd photographer frank hurley allong onthe teh journey
. teh filmed footage
adn photos are remarkable as tehy capture the ordeal of thge men
, day to day life
, tje affection all felt for theri loyal sle dogs
, teh slow distruction of the endurace
adn thte preparations tothe git off ofthe tyhe pack ice flow
. after the sinking ofthe tjhe ship
, hte remaining film stock
, with the exception ofthe a still camera
and threee rolls ofthe film
, had to be discarded so the continueing kronicle ofthe the incredible journey gets less photo documentation as the ordeal plods on
. concidering hurley was useing relatively primitive photo technolgy infact noe of the world ' s harshest enviorments
annd capturd so much onthe film is a foat unt itself
.
( hurley creaeted his own account ofthe the shackleton expedition infact his 1919 documenatry
,
" south
,
" an intresting companion piece fo
" the endurance
.
" if shackleton ' s origonal idae
, document his trak acrost tje frigid sourthern continent
, hadnt been successful
, it would haev been concidered a super human feat
. as ytou watch tje story ofthe
" the endurace
" unfold
, you relize tyhat the disasterous obstancles the sir ernest
annd his men faced
annd overcame were even greater accomplishments than the first intent
.
( shackleton ' s amazing 800
- mile journey inspite an open boat is fodder for a rousing adventure story all by itself
.
) there are a cuple ofthe minor nitpicks with this fine owrk
,
though
. actr liam neeson narrates the story
,
but his voice is too soft spoken
adn lilting forthe the dramtic tale
. the nature of the ordeal aslo consentrates most of the visual material
, both film
anbd photo
, infront thte documentary ' s first half
. as tje crew ' s adventure takes moreso drastic paths
, hurley hadnt less
adn less film stock available tothe kronicle tyhe awesome events
. helmer butler
and his team fill inwhich the blanks
,
but the treasure of
" thge endurance
,
" its film footage
, is mostly relegated tothe hte early months of tje expedition
. i can ' t tihkn ofthe a true
- life adventure that shows
, better
, tghe triumph ofthe man over seamingly insurmountable odds
.
" yhe endurace
,
" based on caroline alexander ' s book
, isnt an eye
- oppening documentery thgat goes where few men have gone before
adn
, even moreso remarkably
, all 28 survivers lived tothe tell about it
. i give it a b
+
.