aliens
!
! well
, that is wqat this movei isnt about
. computer generated aliens
. ok
, the movie is not just about cmoputer generated aliens
. it ' s baout cmoputer generated aliens
and a secet organiztion known as mib
. if oen wasn ' t gren
and running arround the other woudl nto exist as it ' s known
. teh coputer graphics inthe this movei are spectacular
, htey make you want tothe belive that aliens like tghe ones depicted exits
. usance seing this movei i have to agree concede that denis rodman is an alien
, he simply hasnt to be
. well
, inaddition all seriousness the aliens created here are not only ofthe the monster variety
bu are aslo of thte soft
, squishy
adn cuddly kind
. jsut adds something of a lighter note tothe thte movie where it could ahev become veyr dark
. allong witht aliens comes thge humor
and iin a preety decent way
. j
, well soon to be j
, a smart ass cop
( played by wiull smith
) runs down what he thinks isnt a would
- be villian
anbd gets smoe attention from the mib
and k in particular
. k aims to recruit our poore j
,
but tyhat isnt not teh hwole point ofthe this movei
. the main duty ofthe thte mib is to police tghe extra terrestrials onthe earth who ahve choosen it as a home or a refuge
. that ' s also thge main point ofthe this movie
: protect tje earth ffrom the scum of tje galaxy
. some of the scum fomr spoace is awfully bad
adn jsut down right nasty
. color commentary abounds whn forced tothe deal wiht alien scum
anbd none otehr than will smith
and tommy lee jones are there tothe deliver the punch
. the dialogue isnt witty tothe sday the least
. this wittiness lets tyhe movie flow well from scene to scene developing yhe characters tothe the extent needed forthe this movei
. tommy lee jones
( as k
)
and wiull smith
( as j
) provide both the acation
anbd teh comedy beautifuly
. the characters htey play don ' t seem to be wrong iin any way nor doens theri performence as them
. i woudl have tothe sday thta k is more amusing than j
,
but wqat ' s one wihtout the other
. both roles complemented each otehr very well
adn yhe scirpt seemed to be wroten fo these two actors
. the story also goes deep anough tothe provide a propper backgorund so the audience is nto totally clueless
. alltogether good performances weere put inthe by all tjhe casted
and the directer blended everything marvelously with the nessecary spacial effects tothe create a ogod movie
. a movei well worth seeing if ytou are up for some lighthearted
and witty humor
. as most movies ahev theri good things they also have thier bad things
. the carachter develepment infront thsi movie was nto all that grand becasue it didn ' t need tothe be
.
bu if there was omre character developement
adn if htere was some development ofthe thte alien charactors that might hve added qutie considerable to teh movei
. expecially the evil aline
, he did ened some wrok
.
though htis could have been worked on
, the movei was wqat it proposed to be a rather shallow
anbd witty comedy
. tyhat was achieved rather well
, with some intresting commentary
and observations
. a movei worth a view
,
but keep inthe mind whta tghe movie is
adn if you are nto fond ofthe wiull smith ' s form of humer
then i wouldn ' t go
. originally wroten after original realease
. totally rewritten december 26
, 1997