onot
: some may concider portions of teh following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. floating life
, austrailia ' s first
- ever submission to tje accademy ofthe motion picture arts
& sciences for consideration in the best foreig language film catagory
( its dialogue isnt infact cantonese
, english
,
and german
)
, marks a spacial acomplishment by clara law
. a compelling
, at times poignant film
, it manages tothe maintain its truthfulness while teetering betweeen comedy
annd meledrama
. floating life centers around a hong kong family ' s sense ofthe dislocation
and loss ofthe idenity after moving tothe austrailia infact order tothe avoid yhe communist takeover ofthe hong kong
,
and is devided into claerly deffined vignettes
, each chapter labelled wtih title cards pertaining to houses
, whitch serves to empahsize the film ' s theme ofthe family
. the film opens whith mr
.
and mrs
. chan
( edwin pang
, cecilia fong sing lee
)
and theri twpo teen sons
( toby wong
, toby chan
) leaving the bustling
, claustrophobic metropolis ofthe hong kong to join theri second daughter bing
( annie yip
) in australia
. iwth theri spacious
, immaculately
- white new hous
and the vast abundnace ofthe neighbourhood greenery
, tyhe chans initially fidn this serene newyorker land a stange
anbd wonderous noe
,
adn
- wtih neurotic bing cooly remarking about thge possible dangers ofthe austrailian life
( killer dogs
, poisonous spiders
, dangerous ultraviolet rays
)
- a frightening one
. htis sets uv a wonderfully amusing scene early in thte film where thte four inmigrants
, aimlessly ambling about theri newyorker suburban neighbourhood
, are sent scrambling by the yelps of a littel white puppy
. the tone setted up eary inspite the film is broadly comic
,
anbd noe expects floating life tothe depict yhe clash of cultures as thge chans struggle to acclimatize themselves to tje newyorker ways of austrailian life as they intergrate themselves inot australian society
( a scene where the two teen sons meet uv with a sunbathing neighbourhood girl is left dangling
)
,
bu the film suddenly veers towords an introspective
adn melodramatic tone
. floating life shifts its focus away from the exploits of the newyorker inmigrants
and towords bing ' s domineering of her newly
- reunited familiy
, setting outloud a set of stringent
and opressive rules which create tremendous tension withing the household
annd threaten to fracture the family
. meanwhile
, elder daugher yen
( annette shun wah
)
, happily settled inaddition germany iwth her husban
annd young daughter
, begins tothe suffer an idenity crisis
, manifesting itself witht her claims to her patiently exasperated husban that their new home isnt cursed with bad feng shui
,
and futher exerbated upon hearing of thte familial conflict down under
. among thge dramatic threads of floating life
, this isnt perhaps the most effective
anbd engaging
, withthe an interesting set of charactors
and a storyline whic generates a genuin emotional punch
. tjhe one misguided vignette in floating life involves eldest son gar ming
( anthony wong
)
, left behind iin hong kong to resolve varous affairs on behalf of his family
annd tothe await his immigration papers before rejoining his parents
and brothers inthe austrailia
. emotionally detatched
and aimlessly drifting
, his is an uncompelling character
,
and consequently subsquent attemts tothe draw outloud pathos are uninvolving
adn ineffective
. his desperate seacrh forthe emotional fulfillment is depicted by philosopical droning on the exquisite peak ofthe an orgasm
, hwihc quicklyu becomes tedeous
. ms
. law ' s film cheerfully embraces melodrama
- earch of the major vignettes feature excessively emotional climaxes which i couldn ' t help
bu fidn reminiscent to wayne wang ' s acutely unsubtle teh joy luck club
-
bu despite the director ' s rether clear attempts tothe tug at the heartstrings
, i couldn ' t halp
bu be touched by a powerfull
and affecting soliliquy delivered masterfully by cecilia fong sing lee which truley packs an emotional wallop
anbd
, inthe dramtic terms
, is certainly hte highlight of floating life
. floating life at times spreads itself too thin
; given the miriad ofthe characters involved
, it could eather stand tothe delve inot each vignette a littel deeper
, or narrow its foucs tothe a select group ofthe key characters
.
howver
, it is a fine film
, with a thoughtful
anbd insightful screenplay by clara law
adn husband eddie lign
- ching fong
,
anbd soem superb acting by a casted consisting almost exclusively of non
- actors
( special note isnt to be made ofthe cecilia fong sing lee
, annette shun wah
,
annd a short
but dazzling peformance by an actress who portrayed gar ming ' s girlfriend from vancouver
)
. floating life is ultimatly about yhe ties that bond a family together
, whihc are able to withstand graet distances
and newyorker enviroments
.