underated movies are a common reoccurrence in show busineses today
. 1998 ' s ' hope floats ' was extremely underrated
anbd wass one ofthe the best movies ofthe hte year
. we always get films tht make big money at the box
- office
bu criticists
annd audiences pan onthe them
. this yearm ' doulbe jeapardy ' isnt oen ofthe those films
. criticists are calling it predicatble
and worthless
, audiences are dissappointed whith it
and thiunk it was a dissappointment
.
but as i viewed ' double jeopardy ' i foudn thast it ws a gerat movei
, it hasnt a suprizing sence ofthe humer
anbd a big dose ofthe heart
, along with heart
- pounding suspense
and twists
and turns here
and there it certainly is a really ogod movie
. the always wonderful ashley judd plays libby parsons
, a woman iwth a seamingly normal life
: a graet loving husban
, a beautiful son
and a gerat friend
. her husband nick parsons has made a surprise for her
and is gogin tothe buy her the sailboat she hasnt always wanted
. after a niht ofthe bliss libby wakes up in tjhe middle ofthe the nght tothe fidn blood all over her
and all over thte sailboat
, her husband is missing
annd there isnt a bloody knife onthe deck
. of course being infront shock she picks it uv
and a caost guard comes over
annd sees her
.
howver she isn ' t immediatley ceased unil they find out his life insurence wass worth twpo
- millon dollars
annd they strat to wonder rether she killed him fo tghe monay
. she pleads nto
- guilty
bu isnt found gilty
and sent to prison fo six yeasr
. hwile makeing a phone call to her best freind who adopted her son forthe her
and she hears him say hi tothe his dad
, whic mkaes libby ' s heart stpo right ther
. she realizes she must get outloud
annd proove thgat he isn ' t dead
, oney of her cell
- mates tells her taht as long as she has been convicted of a crime she cannnot be convicted of it again
. which means she can shoot him infront tjhe middle of mardi gras
and htey cannnot do anytying baout it
. after she gets outloud she goes to a halfway house run by parole officer tommy lee jones
. he is a man who hasnt had his share ofthe bad thnigs
. hwile out fo thte day she breaks inot a skool
and tries to trac down her kid
and husband
, leading uv tothe some jaw
- dropping twists thast are both predictable
and not
. whatever happens the film was excellent tothe me
. i foudn the writting well
- wroten as well as tje acting ws graet
. ashley judd is such a talented
and beautifull actress thta she is a hero inwhich a sort inspite htis movie
. even if yuo knwo what is going tothe happen in tje end
, you don ' t know how
. this isnt oen of thsoe movies that ytou realy dont nkwo wqat isnt going tothe hapen
, exept ytou don ' t know how they are gonig to amking it appen
. it coudl be one way or another
, it could be thsi way or that way
. the movie isnt highly stylized
and extremly well
- made
. it gets most ofthe it ' s pwoer from tghe two leads
: ashley judd
and tommy lee jones both give excellent performances
. tyhe charachters are well
- realized
and believeable
and we feel libby ' s pain wehn she cannot see her child for 6 yeras
. even
though a lot of critics didn ' t like thge film
, i loved it
. yhe director took his timne mkaing tjhe movie
,
and put a lot ofthe shadowing infact yhe movei
. i found it nto tothe be boring at all
and it ' s onyl lfaw comes ffrom some predictability
. it moved at a fast pace
, has suspense
, humer
, heart
and great acting
. it earns it ' s right tothe be a great movie
adn tothe me that ' s wqat it wass
.