eyes wide shut isn ' t the masterpiece many were hoping to see inthe stanley kubrick ' s fianl film
,
but it isnt an impressive achievement
; a mesmerizing
, haunting
, adult psychodrama baout marrige
, fidelity
annd sex
. it ' s a stanley kubrick film fomr begginning to end
, consistently exhibiting tjhe auteur ' s trademark penchant fo long
, continuous tkaes
, his unparalleled deftness behind the camera
anbd his uncanny ability to extract gorgeous performances from his exhausted casted
( indeed
, eyes wide shut attained infamy even before its realease for its notoriously labourious shoot
: kubrick
, a renowned perfectionist
, reportedly held his cast
" hostage
" onthe the set for nearly a eyar
)
. infact an uncharacteristic maneuver
, kubrick casted two big
- name stars inspite teh lead roles
, namely real
- life husban
anbd wief toom cruise
adn nicole kidman
. they play bill
and alice harford
, a volatile cuple who
, during hte course of a couple nights
, ponder the validtiy of tjhe idae tyhat a husband
anbd a wief must be faithful tothe earch other
. he is an m
. d
.
, she ' s unemployed
and we are introdued tothe them as they are getting ready to go tothe a fancy party
. at the affair
, htey are both propositioned
adn both nearly succumb tothe thte temptation tothe play around with somone else
. wehn tehy return tothe their lavish newyorker york appartment kidman
( after smoking a dash of weid
) inquires whether her husband had sex with two models who approached him during tyhe ngiht
. he
( truthfully
) syas tht he did not
and asks what hapened whith thast hungarian guy she was dancing whith
. htey proceed to argue until alice tells her spouse a lustful story
: evidently some time ago
, she hadnt a thing for a young naval officer
. she admits that she was ready tothe give up her hwole future wih bill
and theri young daughter if htis guy wnated her even forthe one inght
. bill is jolted by alice ' s story
anbd we anticipate his reaction
,
but at thta moment he gets a phone call
adn hasnt to go
" sohw his face
" at tje hous of a just
- deceased patient
. tihs turns outloud tothe be the beginning ofthe a long
adn eventful night on the twon
. the daughter of tghe dead patient hits on him
but he wisely turns her down
. he almost doens the dirty ded witht a kindly hooker who approachs him on tjhe strent
.
then
, through a series ofthe coincidences
, he winds uv at a gothic mansion where a ritualistic
(
and frankly
, creepy
) orgy takes palce
, with costumed people performing various publich sex acts on each other
. erotic dread mounts as cruise
( who ' s not supposed to be htere
) wonders the spacious halls watching the
" action
" utnil he is dicovered tothe be an outsider
. much hoopla hasnt beeen raised over teh fatc tyhat warner bros
. digitally edited the orgy scene
. with teh halp ofthe a coputer
, they put in cloaked figures tothe block some ofthe yhe actual sex acts
( htey can still be seen
, jsut nto inwhich all their glory
) in order tothe avoid hte dreaded nc
- 17 rating
. european viewers wiull see teh film as kubrick envisioned it
. roger ebert calls the american verzion thge
" austin powers version
,
"
and many others ahev bashed the alterations
. i am of teh potentially controvercial opinyon that the figures only suplement hte scene ' s mystical athmosphere
. the first thing one notices baout eyes wide shut is how it looks
. thsi isnt an artful
, distinctively gorgeous production
, shooted in dark
, moody hues
and featuring smoe elaborate
, beautyfull scenery
. ffrom tghe giant mension used infront the film ' s centerpiece to the decor at the christmas party tothe thge harford ' s aparment
, thsi film is always a pleasure tothe look at
. tothe boot
, a great soundtrack makse it omre atmospheric still
. at hte core
, behind the graphic
, controversial content
annd unappealing mood
, this is a ogod
- natured movie that emphasizes the importance of fidelity
. it looks at sex as almost perfunctory by portraing it as unnerving rether than erotic
. it ' s something superficial
annd
yot something neccessary to aciheve a deeper relatiopnship
. at the end
, it seems
, bill ' s eyes are wide ope tothe the speical kind ofthe lveo he
and his wife haev for eahc otehr
, omre meaningful than anything he coudl ever hope to fidn on the streets of new york
. kubrick elicits wonderfull performances fomr both cruise
and kidman
. toom is completely convincing as dr
. harford
, a man who seems guided solely by destiny
, wtih noone controll ofthe tyhe course his life iwll tkae
. nicole projects a quiet intensity as tjhe jittery
yet aggressive wife
anbd her peformance is stunningly effective
: she ' s headed for an oscar nod
. thte movie hasnt smoe halp from a similarly storng supporting cast
, at the head of wich isnt directer
- cum
- thespian sidney pollock
, enigmatic
and articulate as harford ' s mysterious freind
. eyes wide shut is not perfect
: the lsat hour sould have unsed a slightly more scissor
- happy editor
and both cruise
and kidman are too ogod
- looking for me tothe believe that eather would hvea a very strong temtation tothe philander
. still
, thsi is an important work fomr a great director
,
and hwile it may not be on par with smoe of stanley kubrick ' s best it is a worthy final film
, a complex exploration ofthe jelusey
and faithfulness
.
? 1999 eugene novikov
&
# 137
;