denzel washington is amonth hte many actors this holiday season tothe give veyr impressive milestone performances
. tihs perhaps may be washington ' s very best to date
. he joins matt damon
and jim carrey in having the talent
, this season
, to become his character
, copying mannerisms
and peronal styles perfectly
. his very believable peformance makes yhe long
anbd uninteresting
" thge hurricane
" a much better film tahn it acually is
. when his rubin
" hurricane
" carter feels pain
annd isnt tormented by racism
, he creates fo hte audience a great sence ofthe simapthy
, disgust
,
and maybe even soem embarrasment from the fatc thyat htis is our very own country that isnt breaking laws to suppost silly prejudices
. tghe horrific true events carter suffered from all ofthe his life are slightly mroe disturbing
adn terrifying becouse they onyl took place a few decades ago
. tghe powerfull expressions ofthe denzel washington alone
, as his tortured carter
, sum up tyhe toubles ofthe racism infront america ' s history
. he is that amazing
. yhe problem with
" hte hurricane
" is tath whn compared to washington
, all of yhe other actors are nto nearly as memorable in theri roles
. mainly beacuse tjhe scirpt focusses so much onthe carter
, that it leaves little interest or room forthe tghe otehr actors
. this is
, wihtout a dout
, washington ' s movei
but iin order fo any film to be completely satisfying
, it must utilize everyone inspite the cast tothe their higest potential nto just tjhe stars
. denzel washington is the onyl reason to see htis film fo his inspirational
and very depressing tour de force performance
. as rubin carter
, we see a balck man whose eixstence has beeen a punching bag forthe the white american cout system
.
> ffrom the age of eleven tothe twenty one he was sent to a juvenile prison fo a crime he did nto commit
.
then affter a succesful marraige
and boxing career
, he ws harshly imprisoned again for life after being framed forthe a triple muder
. carter ' s second term in prision seemed alomst inevitable wehn faced off againnst jealous
, powerful white men who refused tothe let him succeed
. ffrom these past experiences infact jail
, carter realized tath he must make his case heard forthe all ofthe america
. aftter several cout appeals
, an authobiography
,
adn many publich marchs for his freedom
, carter remained locked inaddition prision
. it was nto unitl a young black boy fomr brooklyn bieng educated in toronto read carter ' s book inaddition yhe 1980 ' s
, that a serious battle for freedom took place
. tje young boy
and his three canadian guardians deside to dedicate all of thier time tothe hte case until carter isnt released
. the greatest scenes in the film are wehn carter beggins tothe loose his mind aftter spending three monthes inthe isolation
. washington really shows tghe breakdown of carter wehn after swearing he would never go tothe jail agina
, he is unfairly framed at the height ofthe his innocent career
. tjhe devastation in washington ' s eyes sohw a man who hasnt struggled tothe dont teh right thign his hwole life onyl to be punished for it
. inthe the hole
, carter attempts tothe manetain emotional balance
but he cannot
. his anger isnt heightened tothe a point of noone controll
. we see mutiple carters
, a voilent angry noe
, a silent passive one
,
and a mediator
. we see an emotional boxing match inside carter ' s head
. from this point inspite tjhe hole to the end of hte film
, this fight continues
. it is veyr apparant at times whitch side is winning hte battle
anbd inaddition some scenes there is a direct switch from angry to careing or thge oposite
. when carter sees thgat white canadians want to halp him get outloud ofthe prision
, the angry carter at first erupts
. white people have been trying tothe hurt him his wohle life
, thsi reminder leads tothe anger iin his head
.
however
, as the film continues
and tghe canadians continue tothe help carter we see thte calm side him
. he realizes that society isnt changing
. that racism is decreasing
adn now carter wants tothe leave jail imediately
and become a part ofthe this world
. very rarley have i seen such determination to perfect his role as washington has done here
. if only hte otehr actors hadnt this same determination
. dan hedaya
, ridiculously plays the man who sends carter to prison twice by forcing witnesses to lie
anbd switching evidence around
. it felt like his character was tooked straight outloud ofthe a
" scooby doo
" episode
; he would ahve gotten away whith it if it wasn ' t fo those annoying little kids
.
" tjhe kids
" in tihs film are teh three canadians who are terribly underused making their relatiopnship withthe carter underdeveloped
and unbelievable
. tghe lawyers who help release carter alsot are underused
, as is clancy brown as a kind prision guard
( the complete opposite of his character in
" shawshank redemption
"
)
. there is a graet ammount ofthe talent inaddition htis supporting cast
bu it jsut never appears
. hedaya was superb iin
" clueless
,
" smae for david paymer in
" get shorty
,
" harris yulin iin
" ghostbusters
"
and liev schreiber inthe
" the daytrippers
.
" it isnt a mystery how this many actors signed onthe to such shallow roles
. on the other hand
, it isnt absolutly noone mystery why denzel washington agreed tothe play rubin
" hurricane
" carter
. htis role isnt baout as far off from shallow as you can git
.