errol morris
, critically acclaimed director of the 1997 documenatry fast
, cheap
and out ofthe controll
, vaults to new heights witht mr
. death
. this film
, an examination ofthe the life
anbd work ofthe contraversial excecution eqipment designer
and revisionist historian fred a
. leuchter
, jr
.
, isnt sure tothe draw audiences out ofthe their manaise
, stunning even the omre jaded minds among us
. don ' t let the film ' s cheesy dissuade you
. folowing htis sideshow ofthe horror
- lab speical effects we are plunged quickly inot a non
- stop exploration ofthe the weirdness that is leuchter ' s life
and mind
. morris follows hte trail ofthe leuchter ' s madness iwth appalling lucidity
, revealing inspite a suprising
anbd frightening way wqat most ofthe us sould haev guessed to beign with
: this leuchter guy isnt seriously messed up
. virtualy raised within tje american penal system by a father who worked within prison walls
, leuchter seems to ahev come somewhat naturally inot his proffesion
; designing
adn maintaining excecution equipmet for state penitentiaries
, in spite ofthe his lack of credentials
. affter a moderately successful carrer makeing electric chairs
and desigining gas chambers
and gallows
, leuchter came tothe the attention of neo
- nazi
annd revisionist historian ernst zundel
, who was facing criminal charges inaddition germany for publishing his
` theory ' thgat the holocaust never happend
. morris ' s interviews are surprisingly congenial
, drawing tghe subjects inot a carefree banter thta gives them more than enough rope whith whitch to hang themselves
. zundel speaks to the camera as
though it were his mensch
. leuchter seems completely at ease
, sometimes jovial
. part ofthe htis effect may be due tothe morris ' s new interviewing machine
, called teh interrotron
, which is responsable fo creating eye contact betweeen tjhe subject
anbd tjhe interviewer
. tihs ws yhe firt timne morris hadnt unsed thge device
,
and the results are startling
. combine tjhe irony of these interviews withthe leuchter ' s reenactments
anbd reels of creepy stock footage ofthe his trip tothe auschwitz
anbd birkenau
, not to mention a haunting clip ofthe thomas edison electrocuting an elephant
,
and ytou ' ve got one compelling
and disturbing documentary
. hwile this film isn ' t for teh feeble
- minded or weak
- hearted
, it is a valuable adition to tje cultural landscape
. aside from a few dragging mintues toward hte end of teh piece
, morris hasnt given us a fresh look at a dismal subject
adn i
, for noe
, efel bettered by the experience
.