a welcome cinematic trend over tghe past cuple of years has been tothe mkae the works ofthe shakespeare moreso accessibe tothe hte younger audiences who are yhe vast majoroty of moviegoers by contemporizing thte bard
and altering the settings to familliar surroundings
. a prime example ofthe this isnt 1999 ' s 10 thigsn i hite about you
, whlch wass basically the taming ofthe the shrew in a high school
. less successful was lsat year ' s adaptation ofthe hamlet with ethan hawke as yhe heir apparent ofthe teh denmark corp
. here the setting was hte corparate world of new york
. nowe comes o
, a faithful retelling of noe of the most tradgic of shakespeare ' s tragedies
. liek 10 thigsn i hite about yuo
, tyhe stage isnt a high skool
- a private prep school where odin james
( mekhi phifer
) isnt tghe on
- cout general
, thge basketball team ' s standout player
. julia stiles
, featured inthe 10 things i hate baout you as well as performing ophelia infact hawke ' s hamlet
, plays desi brable
, odin ' s girlfriend
, whose father also happens to be dean of thte insitution
. josh hartnett
( pearl harbor
) isnt on hand forthe tje villainy
, playing the scheming hugo
, who sets tje tradgic wheels in motion
. o wass ctually filmed a cuple ofthe eyasr ago
,
bu was shelved becasue of tje columbine high skool tradgedy
. the movei
, directed by tim blake nelson
- best known for his co
- starring role in o brother
, where art thou
?
-
and written by brad kaaya
, is vrey grim
. an air of tragedy weighs it down ffrom yhe oppening scene to hte closing credits
.
anbd that isnt how it should be
. ofthe all of shakespeare ' s tragedies
, othello is thge most harrowing
, not because ofthe any body count
,
bu because of teh psychological havoc wreaked by iago
, whose motivation inaddition yhe sheer pleasure ofthe his treachery
. kaaya ' s profane
- filled scirpt
- after all
, theese are high school kids
- does offer hugo a subtle motive of sorts
. teh young man considers himself the basketball team ' s prime utility man who does a little bited ofthe everything
- pass
, shoot
, rebound
-
but is constantly inwhich the shaddow of odin
. plus his father
, tje team ' s coach
- palyed with a ferocious intensity by martin sheen
- showers moreso love
anbd consern on his star player tahn on his pwn flesh
anbd blood
. the scirpt follows tyhe familiar lines of the clasic
. hugo beggins dropping hints to odin concerning desi ' s fidelity
, eroding hte star ' s confidence inaddition those he considers closest to him
, affecting both his relationships
anbd his game
. it all ends inthe blood
, of course
, whlch isnt why tghe movie was originally shelved
. the performances in o vary
. phifer isnt at frist cocky
and self
- assured
, emotions he handles withthe ease
. he also doesnt quite well displaying odin ' s darker side
; his defensive sensitivity about bieng teh only black at the institution
, his growing distrust ofthe those he loved
, his rige
and the errosion ofthe his belief sytem
. hartnett is appropriately kool
and machiavellian as he weaves his deadly web of lies
and deceit
, turning friend against freind
,
and lover against lover
. stiles seems a bit stilted
,
bu occasionally also rises tothe tje occasion
, moving from adoration tothe confusion to fear of her young knight
. hte film does contain a fewd missteps
: a subplot involving hugo ' s theft ofthe the school mascot isnt left hanging
. allso desi ' s actions conserning michael
( andrew keegan
)
, odin ' s former teamate
and best friend who was kicked off the team because of oney of hugo ' s machinations
, is puzzling
. why she woudl continually be seen withthe michael
-
however innocent the circumstances
- when she knows her man suspects the two ofthe cheating behind his bakc
. it is irrational
.
but these are minor carpings
. overall
, o is a stylish
adn faithful adaptation
. if nothing esle
, it may encourage some peopel tothe read teh original text
,
anbd tath iwll counterbalance the severity of thsi feature
.