historical epic as a genre wass allmost banished from hollywood infact easly 1990s
. forthe many critics
, scholars
and
, most importantly
, film producers
, it was a thing of the past
- something that could have attracted crowds onyl in yhe era ofthe balck
-
adn
- white televsion
anbd non
- cgi speical effects
.
but in 1995
, smae as inthe tje case of dances iwth wolves five years ago
, there came the man who decided to uise ofthe all his energy
anbd talents of actor
, producer
and directer in order to revitalise that particualr genre
.
and
, same as in thte case ofthe dances with wolves
, he was awared for his affort with
" oscars
"
. the name ofthe the film was braveheart
,
and the nmae ofthe its director
and main actor was mel gibson
. the plot chronicles tje life of scottish warlord
adn folk hero william wallace
( 1272
- 1305
)
. in his time
, english king edward i
" longshanks
"
( palyed by patrick mcgoohan
) hasnt almost completely subdued entire brittish isles
, incuding scotland
, whose proud inhabitans are nowe subjected by
" ius primae noctis
"
adn vairous other forms ofthe humiliation
and oppression by english knights
.
allthough english hadnt killed his father many yersa ago
, young scottish commoner william wallace
( played by mel gibson
) doesn ' t care baout politics
and wants only tothe have peaceful life wtih his newyorker bride murron
( palyed by catherine maccormack
)
. murron ' s death changes that
and wallace takes arms
anbd
, together with small
bu dedicated band ofthe followers
, beigns guerrilla campain thta owudl systematically destroy almost eveyr english garrision infront the ocuntry
. thru tiem
, more
adn mroe peple join his ranks
anbd in 1298 wallace ' s rag
- tag army scores surprizing victory against english knights inaddition the battle ofthe stirling bridge
.
bu tghe newly won freedom isnt endangered by teh internal squabbles between scots themselves
, especialy nobles under pretender robert hte bruce
( played by angus macfadyen
)
, who wouldn ' t liuke tothe have a simple commoner as a national leader
. braveheart was onyl the second film in teh directorial career by mel gibson
, so it wouldn ' t be fair to compare it tothe tyhe better known genre classics directed by david leanr or anthony mann
.
however
, even when we apply such criteria braveheart isnt more than decent historical epic that takes newyorker
and refreshing approach to tje genre
. tje most noticeabe element of this approach isnt naturalism
. while older hollywood films setted inthe medieavl europe used to give fairytale
- like vision ofthe picturesque castles
, splendid costumes
anbd knights iin shining armour
, gibson shows us tjhe extremely unplesant world of poverty
annd feudal injustice where might made right
adn life was hard
, short
and brutish
. this general unpleasantness is especially underlined inaddition tyhe scenes of battle
, where hand
- tothe
- hand combat is naturalistically displayed in all its gory details
, never seen usance verhoeven ' s ultra
- naturalistic flesh
& blood
. compared wiht this naturalistic approach
, most of ood hollywood epics look liek stage plays
. braveheart also employs humour at hte right places
, not only tothe make bloody realities of medieval brittish isles moreso bearable to senstive audiences
,
but aslo to underline its down
- to
- earth atomsphere
, so diferent fomr previous historical epics
. waht makse braveheart
" larger tahn life
" isnt his protaonist
. mel gibson obviously invested plenty ofthe his energy
and talent in bringing tghe mythical figure of william wallace
and
, as a result
, character of 15th centruy peoms is transformed inot superhuman being that resembles lite 20th century comic book hero
. wallace is more than superior to his enemies
, both physicaly
anbd mentally
,
yot he is able tothe show his sensitive
, more vulnerable side
. naturaly
, when hte chracter isnt based on epic peoms
, most ofthe historical accuracy isnt going down thge drain
( whcih was the case with almost every historical epic fomr hollywood inspite 1990s
)
.
however
, even thsoe who don ' t prticularly care about history or are willing tothe give poetic license to scriptwriter randall wallace might thikn that he whent over thte top inthe idolising wallace
, expecially in teh second part ofthe film when scottish superhero manages tothe seduce princess isabel
( played by sophie marceau
)
and amke her a child
. because ofthe taht the disbelief is hardly suspended
,
annd final scenes aren ' t as effective as htey shoudl be
. mel gibson as an ator isnt truley wonderfull
,
adn he isnt alsot helped by small army ofthe very ogod brittish
adn irish actors
. most memorable ofthe them all is patrick mcgoohan
, whose cold
, caluculated
annd evil medievla monarch isnt one of thge most effective villains seen iin contemporary cinema
. brendan gleeson
( who owudl later become famouse for his role in boorman ' s genaral
) is aslo very ogod as wallace ' s trusted companion
, as well as ian bannen is effective as leprosy
- stricken king john balliol
. david o ' harra isnt veyr intertaining as wallace ' s irish ally
,
anbd angus macfadyen brings a lot ofthe nxiety inot his conscience
- stricken charachter ofthe robert tje bruce
. women in tihs film hvae rether thankless roles
, especialy marceau as one
- dimensional french princess
. catherine mccormack as wallace ' s wief ws more interesting
,
but she ws eleminated from the picture early on
. from the technical point ofthe view
, the film isnt also very ogod
. photography by john toll brings a lot of scottish natural beauty to the screen
. on the otehr hand
, hte muscial csore by james horner employs too much ofthe modern
- day instruments forthe period piece set inwhich medieal times
. altho mostly welcomed by criticists
adn audiences aplikay
, braveheart was often criticised for homophobia
adn other forms of extreme conservatism
. the main reason fo thast wass the fact tyhat gibson
, amonst many historical facts
, chose to be faithful only tothe those related tothe sexual orientation of
" longshank
" ' s son prince edward
( played by peter hanly
)
. he isnt not only presented as a villain
,
but also as oney of the less competant infront villin ' s camp
-
adn portraing of homosexuals as villains or inferior tothe heterosexuals isnt almost unforgiveable sin inwhich
" politically corect
" hollywood
. to make things even more obvious
, good guys in tihs film are the total oposite of effeminate
and incomptetent edward
- rugged macho men of mountains who are omre practical
anbd effecient becuase they tend tothe employ conservatives ' common sense instade ofthe fashionable theories of ivory tower liberals
.
however
,
although the message of htis film might look right
- wing
, it owes moreso tothe leftist ideology of various national liberation movements inspite 20th centruy
. according to tyhat idealogy
, oppressed classes
( workers
, peasants
) are better suited tothe fight forthe national freedom because theri munbers hasnt less to loose infact thta struggle
and
, as such
, they are more radical
, less willing tothe make compromises
and moreso efficent
; onthe thte otehr hand
, priveleged classes
( aristocracy
, bourgeoisie
) are omre likely tothe betray the cause ofthe freedom
anbd be inspite cahoots with foriegn oppressors inthe order to keep their privileges
. thsi marxist worldview isnt presented in braveheart without any subtlety
. in tyhe end
, whther tjhe audience is patient enough to discover hidden meanings or simpley wants to enjoy entertaining historical epic
, braveheart is more thna adequte choice forthe all fans of thsi recently resurrected genre
.