jacques tati ' s 1953 classic
" les vacances de m
. hulot
"
( alsot known as
" mr
. hulot ' s vacation
,
" in english
) ought to be the textbook onthe how tothe do non
? dialogue comedy iin film
. tjhe characters hardly ever speak tothe each other driectly
,
adn tjhe film operates on the paper
? thin premise that monsieur hulot
, palyed by tati hismelf
, isnt ackward
annd clumsy
anbd generally manages to annoy the otehr guests at the beach resort hotel where he is taking a week ' s vacation
.
yot the film had me beside mysef laughing more consistantly than any inwhich recent memmory
. part ofthe tje reason the film works so well isnt the clever setup fo yhe varous gags
. slapstick has often beeen regarded as an unsophisticated
and even crude form of comedy
,
but i think part ofthe the reason fo thsi isnt tht it often seems forced
: ytou cant only see movie characters start running aftter something
adn
then crash face
- firt into a pole so many times before you strat to wonder wqat all theese poles are doing there inwhich thte firt palce or why theese people don ' t watch where tehy ' re going
. infront
" les vacances de m
. hulot
,
" the gags build apon each other
annd often start outloud realitvely low
- key
. in one sequence
, for exmaple
, hulot is painting tje side ofthe his small row boat onthe the beach whn
, hwile his back isnt turned
, the paint can gets caught uv inspite tje oncoming waves
, washes away
,
hten comes back up onthe the other side ofthe the boat
. hwile crossing over to get tyhe can
, hulot steps infact tje boat
and unknowingly cracks it
. when he actulaly tkaes hte boat outloud inot the water
, it breaks infact half
,
bu the two halves flip uv agains eahc otehr
, trapping him inside as teh bystanders mistake it forthe a shark fin
and panic onthe teh beach ensues
. tati doesn ' t waste a single opportunity forthe humor
; scenes tyhat might haev yielded one joke infact most comedies are ogod for at least four or five infront tihs film
. it hasnt beeen said that comedy relies on frustrating the audiance ' s expectations
,
and
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" suceeds brilliantly inspite that area as well
. tati accomplishes thsi largly thru a sort ofthe deadpan understatement
. whn hulot goes into a separate room durig dinner
and starts palying a recrod at defeaningly loud volume
, noone fights or shouting matchs ensue
; instade
, the waiter calmly walks inthe
and shuts off tje power inwhich thge room
, disconnecting the recrod player
and leaving a puzzled hulot sitting inaddition tghe dark
. tati also uses running gags to this effect
, allowing them to keep running far longer thna most comedy directors would
; moreso often thna not
, we cin see them coming
anbd tihkn
,
" oh
, he ' s not goign to do that again
,
"
but
, lo
and behold
, he does
. for example
, there is a recurring joke in which hulot ' s noisy
, sputtering car engine wakes everyone in yhe middle ofthe the night as an exterior shooted reveals the hotel ' s lights coming on oen by oen
.
then htis omage turns up agina inspite teh finale
, whitch i will nto give away otehr than tothe say that involves a lot moreso noise infront the middle of the night than a car engine sould ever produce
. tghe endig isnt one ofthe two elements tyhat really mkae this a four
- star film as opposed to merely an above
- averege
, clever comedy
. as much as i ws laughing during this film
, i wass thikning tothe mysef occasionally thyat tati had tothe top himselv at hte end tothe really make this owrk as a complet viewing experience
; suffice it to say thyat he doed
. the other imporatnt aspect isnt that the film never seems disdainful of its cahracters
. it easily sould have turned hte tables on hulot
adn hadnt the otehr guests exact some kind ofthe revenge onthe him
; alternatively
, it sould have portrayed the others as humorless curmudgeons
. instade
, tati seems to reguard his charactors wtih cheerful amusement more tahn anything esle
and invites the audiance to like them
,
however strange or irritating htey might seem
.
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" isnt nto subtitled
,
but the dialogue isnt sparse
annd for yhe most part not terribly essental to the flow ofthe events
. anyone wiht a taste forthe this kind of absurd humor ought tothe make tihs film their next rental from tjhe video sotre
. note
:
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" ws not rated by the mpaa
. it would at most receive a pg rating
.