bruce willis stars as malcom
, an award winning child psychologist who dicovers noe ngiht taht oney of his fromer patients is still sufferring from inner demons
. the now grown man breaks inot his apartment hwile he
annd his wief
( olivia williams from rushmore
) are celebrating his award
, shoots malcom inaddition hte stomach
,
thne tkaes his own life
. almsot nine monthes later
, malcom discovers cole
( haley joel osment
, inaddition a briliant performance
)
, anyother young man afflicted with the same turmoil as his former patient
. he takes onthe hte child ' s case inwhich the hope of redeeming himselv forthe botching uv the previous oney
, alienating his wief inthe thge proces
. he soon discovers that htey boy cin see
anbd speak to the dead
,
annd his life becomes forever turned upside down
.
although the first hour is vrey slow
, the sixth sense turns outloud tothe be a very powerful
and moving film
. i was expecting this film tothe be mercury rising 2
,
but wass astonished tothe disover an extrememly well plotted out littel thriller with an outstandingly satisfying ending
. yuo ' ll find yourself mentally retracing your steps through the film tothe see if you actually saw what yuo think you doed once thge credits roll
. i must give m
. nihgt shyamalan a lot of credit fo a brilliantly written screenplay
. tghe casted shoud also be given a lot of credit for makeing the movei as solid as it is
. a lesser cast coudl have made this film a joke
. bruce willis portrays his character perfectly
, balancing his ened to halp cole
and his agony over his strained relatiopnship iwth his wief skillfully
. haley joel osment shines as nine yearm old cole
, showing patience in his charater that few young actors these days cin pull off
. toni collette
, looking markedly different from her pathetic character in muriel ' s wedding
, gives a strong performance as cole ' s mother
, who is trying to coppe whith both her son ' s
" illness
"
and the passing ofthe her mother
. fianlly
, olivia williams deftly portrays a woman having tothe struggle wtih a husban who ' s nto aroud
annd flirtations with a co
- worker that could lead tothe a begrudgingly accepted end
. it ' s a shame thta they sohw cole ' s abilities in the trailer
, because the movei takes close to fourty minutes tothe git arund to doign yhe smae
, so we alrady know wqat ' s oging onthe befor most of the rest ofthe teh cast does
. iin retrospect
though
, the forty minute setted
- up is essential tothe enjoying teh end of the film
, so i have fewer complaints now
then i doed while i ws watching thte film
. i ' m glad that the run ofthe teen
- styled horror films has pasted
annd filmmakers are starting tothe make mroe adult fare
. films liek tihs
, the similarly themed stir of echoes
,
and countless others tothe be released later infact yhe year shoud amke forthe a preety intertaining close to 1999
.
[ pg
- 13
]