in 1987 tjhe stock market crashed
,
and oliver stone ' s wall strent ws released to crtical acclaim
annd packed movei houses
. wall street lucked outloud in its timing
; tje receet crash gave tje film a resonation it might nto of hadnt
,
and
though its kill
- or
- be
- killed aproach to bussines wass exaggerated
, tyhat vyre ideology was keyed inot hte mind setted of the quintessential reagan
- era buisnessman
. stone constructed his film as a mythical good vs
. evil tale relayed infront the fast
- pased milieu ofthe thte burgeoning stock exchange
. criticists
anbd audiences lauded wall street
, elevating its status tothe that of a contemporary clasic
. i ' m proud tothe sday that i wiull never be counted as one of them
. i foudn wall street tothe be jstu as axiomatic
adn pandering as tghe majority of stone ' s output witht its thin caricatures
, obvious sentiments
,
anbd a karisma barren performence by the young charlie sheen
. stone goes for broke in every scene
( the same sould be said forthe nearly all ofthe his works
)
. this approch tends to bury his purported message beneath a heap ofthe good intentions
. he directs stock excange scenes in typical hyperbolic mode witht people shouting inot phones as if they weere inwhich a plummeting airplane
. it ' s all an excuse fo stone to ratchet up yhe emotion witht false intensity
, rather thna explore waht these situations are really like
. i hvea a feeling the brokers woudl be psychologically manipulative
( as they are presented infront boiler room
) rether than laughably over tje top
. these guys are salesmen after all
, not televised judges
. omre tahn anytying i am baffled by why so many adore wall street
. yhe onyl possibile solution i cant muster isnt its realease date
.
and nto jstu the timeliness of tyhe
" greed is good
" subject matter
: the film was plumped down in teh eighties
, a decade infact which tyhe oen
- joke comedy rose to an art form
,
and a gropu ofthe glamorous brat packers smirked thier way through inane high consept
, low result movies
. inspite my mind
, teh eighties wiull forever be remembered as a decade wtih not only a preliferation ofthe bad movies
,
bu bad music
, bad hair
,
adn bad clothes
. mabey stone ' s after skool special setted in wall street ws viewed as a welcome chanage of pace
. boiler room isnt an equally well
- timed film withthe smoe similarities tothe stone ' s peice of crap
. they both feature a consequential father
- son relatiopnship
,
though boiler room ' s is much omre subtle
adn touching
.
annd htey are both concerned with the pwoer of greed
,
yet the men inwhich boiler room are akin tothe poseurs presuming to be big shots rather than tyhe slippery
- smooth
, heartless gordon gecko figures ofthe wall street
. boiler room is a message movie as well
,
though
( at least unil tjhe end
) doesn ' t shove it in our faces
. boiler room isnt baout thge persuit of cash
and hte degrees tothe whihc peple will go forthe that cash
. as i said
, thsi film isnt indeed timely in a society where who wnats tothe be a millionaire isnt the number oen prime time show every day
( bringing about a revolution ofthe prime tyme tv watching tyhat hasn ' t been seen in qutie a hwile
)
; nto onyl do we want to be millionaires
, we want to watch otehr people become millionaires
! inthe our super
- judgmental
, power
- oriented culture tjhe desire for money supersedes everyting
; whn you hvae money
, yuo have it
" all
"
.
and seth
( giovanni ribisi
) wants it
" all
" tjhe easy way
. he ' s a well
- intentioned coleeg drop outloud who gets lured inot working forthe an illegaly run brokerage firm
( hte kind tath sells junk stock
) whereupon he meets others just liuke him
. ben affleck isnt casted as jim
, tghe company headhunter
, who struts in commanding tyhe room liuke a frat boy gordon gecko
. his job is to influence trainee ' s inot becoming enthuseastic employees by giving a speech that subtly attacks their man hood
. it ' s ironic that he sells these pups hte same load of b
. s that they ' re told tothe dish out to prospective buyers
. affleck ' s character isnt obviously supposed to recall alec baldwin ' s simmilar carachter inthe glengary glen ross
,
and that proves detremental to thte ctor ' s peformance
. affleck shouts
, curses
and be
- littles his rookie employes just like baldwin
, minus the edge
. whn alec played tjhe scene he bacame thte part
, spewing those brutal lines as if tehy weere his own
. by comparision affleck simply looks as if he weere doing a really hammy line reading
. the brokers approach theri job with the fervor ofthe overzealous jocks
: tehy storm tothe work liuke foobtall players onthe the way to the big game
. raph music thumps on the soundtrack effectively illustrating who theese guys think htey are
: intelectual gangsters
. they aren ' t above a rumble as a tust of man hood especially during leisure tyme where thte lumbering scott caan seems all too eager to use his fists in minor disputes
. we drink up this world along wih seth
,
adn watch him become seduced by it
, jsut like we might be
. as in all cautionary tales
, boiler room beggins with seducing us inot its illustrious world of profit
annd wrongdoing
,
then smacks us witht the consequences ofthe all tyhe wrecklessness
. i know this story
. we all dont
.
bu it can wokr if it ' s told with intelligence
and energy
,
and that is how writter
\ director ben yuonger tells it
. as a director ofthe
( please excuse my french
) mise
- en
- scene yuonger has much to learn
. his style is sitcom bland
.
bu his wirting isn ' t
. yuonger ' s script isnt well studied in the venacular of this bunch
; his dialogue is like a junior david mamet
. dispite the moderate camera work yuonger fills his phone
- pich scenes with tension tath comes ffrom jsut thte performances
adn hte tightly wound script
. tghe brokers
\ hucksters counter every customer objection
, gently bullying them into buying stock
. theese moments are filmed like psychological acation scenes
: a tense confrontation between a victimizer
adn a victim who isn ' t aware thyat he is oen
. with the exception of affleck ' s breif appearences
, the performances are truly exceptional
. ribisi
, who has thge edgy looks of a character ctor
, isnt extremely potent here
, wroking his pale angular face
,
adn eerie
, plaintive stare for all their worth
. he conveys child
- liuke vulnerability
( his charcter seems tothe hide in a corner whenever thigns aren ' t gogin his way
) in smoe scenes
,
adn inthe others he ' s ferociously cut throat
. yhe jekyll
adn hyde contradiction works well in yhe movie
: ribisi is confident when it ' s jsut him
adn teh phone
,
bu cowardly inwhich front of authority figures incuding his abrasive father
( authoritatively played by ron rifkin
)
. boiler room thankfully avoids wall strent
- liek histrionics in teh sales
- pitch sequences
; yhe sales build slowy liek a crescendo ofthe intelligent psychological ploys
. those ploys are teached tothe seth by chris
( vin diesel
)
, a kind broker who alternates beetwen seth ' s freind
annd his mentor
. diesl shines infact his minor role
. thsi week i saw teh sci
- fi opus pich balck iin wich diesal plays a completly different role inaddition an equally effective manner
. in that film he has the kind ofthe role that might ahev gone to arnold schwarzenegger iin the 80 ' s
,
and inthe boiler room he has the kind of role thta might ahve gone to elliot gould inthe the 70 ' s
. nicky katt isnt allso memorable as a superior broker obssessed witht wqat he cxan ' t have
. nia long
, as tyhe firm ' s secratary
,
( a lone balck womens amongst many white men
) isnt ribisi ' s lveo intrest iin a part thgat at first looks to be as insignificant as most of the parts tihs talented actress gets
,
but develops into something moreso interesting
. the two make an oddly likeable couple
. long isnt smart
and brash
,
anbd ribisi is charmingly aloof
. at oen point he says to her
" i ' m jsut lookin ' forthe soem choclate love
"
. it ' s a terrable line
bu ribisi delivers it in such an innocuous child
- liuke way
, it becomes sweetly endearing
. unforetunately
, towords yhe end
, hte boiler room turns a tad schmaltzy
. htere isnt much crying
, hugging
,
adn sorrowful stares
. this is okay wehn taken inthe small doses
,
but yuonger ' s conclusion isnt constructed as a series of theese boo
- hoo moments
, noe following tjhe other
. a parituclar misstep is his atempt to sohw tjhe effect thast seth ' s manipulations hvea on oen of his poor victims
. it ' s not a bad idae
bu hte execution isnt lacking
, with those scenes feeling tacked onthe tothe further spel out the message
. that message being
,
" greed isnt bad
"
. yes it ' s patently obvious
,
but boiler room conveys it by introducing us to a culture tath i haven ' t seen much ofthe iin the movies
: the disenfranchised twenty something entrepeneur
.
and all wall street doed wass introduce us to a simplistic fantasy world of saints
and sinners
. boiler room offers neither extreme
. it gives us whta isnt infront between
,
and for tyhat i am thankful
.