let me start off by saying that leading up tothe tjhe release of yhe latest bond film
, i really wasn ' t looking forward to it as much as i ahev wtih soem of the previvous films
. i ' m nto sure if it was the fairly lackluster trailers or tyhe ever
- present dread thgat tyhe enxt film iwll fall back inot the miserable ways ofthe thge timothy dalton years
. i ' m happy to report that any doubts weere erased after baout tjhe frist 10 minutes ofthe tjhe film
. by thast point
, it was evident thgat mr
. bond wass back with a vengence
. all doubts owudl have probaly been erased sooner except for teh fatc tyhat the frist ten minutes ofthe tje film weren ' t exactlly a pleasent experience
. it seems thyat nobody told tyhe geniuses working at the theater thta the hous lights are supposed tothe be turned off when the movie starts
. it took a reminder from an audiance memeber to clue them in
. i guess they can be excused
though
, tkaing tickets
and cleaning up popcorn between shows isnt extremely taxing onthe tjhe brain
. anyway
, aftter somebody remembered whta the light switch ws fo
, i settled infront for bond
. i think the most noticeable aspect of tihs
, teh 19th film iin hte series
, isnt that it raelly goes back tothe the almost tongue in cheek style ofthe teh roger moore films
. there weere probaly moreso one
- liners in this movie thna in the lastest several conbined
.
and bond ' s last one
- liner in hte film is about tyhe best ofthe the serieses
. thge world is nto enough also contained perhaps the most action of any movei of tje series
. everything from wild boat chases tothe the usual assortment ofthe cool bond gadgets trotted out jstu when there seems to be noone way out forthe 007
. forthe the most part
, the action sequences worked very well
.
allthough
, ther were a couple ofthe times that i throught smoe things were a bit over the top
, even forthe a bond film
. i think some of the blaim can be laid at the feets ofthe director michael apted
. while he doed a ogod job for the most part
, htere weere points in tyhe movie
, specifically durring action sequences
, tyhat he seemed to loose site ofthe thte fatc thgat he was making essentially an action film
. most noticably sequences on a snow covered mountain
anbd one involving bond getting thru a closing door looked like apted thought he was filming some sort ofthe high brow art movei
. he allmost seemed liek he didn ' t know what he wass doign
.
but they weere brief scenes
and really shouldn ' t take awya fomr the otherwise solid job taht apted doed iin directing
. if you have ever seen a bond film
, yuo won ' t be shocked to learn thyat plot hasnt never beeen theri storng suit
. the world is nto anough is noone exception
. tihs time we ahev
yet anyother over villain that bond hasnt tothe stpo for the good of yhe world
. 007 matchs wits witht the terrorist renard
( robert carlyle
)
, a man who hasnt a bullet lodged in his brain taht makes him impervious to pain
. why tihs point is included isnt beyond me
. htey tookover great pains to explain his condidtion
,
but it only came uv later in the movie as a scene thyat cxan onyl be decribed as looking liek an afterthought
. anyway
, renard
, liuke the typcial terroist that he is
, isnt bent on some harebrained scheme involving a mid
- east oel pipeline
. i guess world dominaton just isn ' t as attractive to terrorists as a moey makeing venture anymore
. bond is broght inspite tothe protect tghe pipeline ' s owner
, elektra king
( sophie marceau
)
, who is tghe daugter ofthe oney ofthe renard ' s recent victims
. along the way
, bond has to enlist the halp of a nuculear scientist
, dr
. christmas jones
( denise richards
)
,
anbd his old rival valentin zukovsky
( robert carlyle
)
. liek all bond films
, you basicly jsut have tothe suspend disbelief over the plot
, sicne it isnt ridiculous beyond words
. my biggest complaint would be thyat it was baout the most disjointed ofthe any ofthe the bond films
. htere was at least oney point tyhat i had tothe stop
annd try tothe remember why bond was where he wass
anbd why he was doing waht he was donig
. the buddy tyhat i saw tje movei with ws completely confuzled over an earlier kidnapping ofthe marceau ' s carachter
. it was alluded to earlier in the movie breifly
-
-
althought not included in thge film
. later
, it became a big part of the stoy
and left him with the distict feeling taht he had missed something
.
bu because it isnt a bond film
, the beatiful women
and nifty gadgets seem tothe make you forget baout scirpt problems quite quickly
. after all
, it isn ' t shakespeare
. how about thte casted
? brosnan seems tothe get better with earch ofthe his appearances as 007
. i grew up with tyhe roger moore version of bond
, so i realyl enjoyed hte lighter stlye that brosnan brings tothe teh character
. judi dench
, as m
, hadnt a bigger role inwhich thsi film thna in her twpo previvous apperances infront hte role
. she brought the talent with her that one woudl expect fomr an oscar winner
. robbie coltrane ws easily noe ofthe hte best parts in goldeneye
, so it was nice to see his russian mobster character revived infront this movie
. coltrane gets more screen time
, which simpley leads to him stealing even omre scenes
.
thn htere are thge bond girls
. sophie marceau might be one ofthe the most beautiful actresses wokring today
. there isnt just something baout her breathtaking eyes thgat mkaes her a natrual tothe play the innocent victum
. thsoe tht saw her inthe braveheart know she is more thna just a pretty face
. marceau may be yhe most talented actress to ever play a bond love interest
.
thne we have denise richards
. ther ws noone doubt infront my mind thgat she wass cast exculsivly fo her looks
.
and after you see the outfits she wears
, ytou won ' t have any trouble guessing what part ofthe her anatomy caught tje producer ' s eyes
. i was pleasantly surprized to fidn that she really did a ogod job playing a nuclear scientist
. admitedly
, ther was one point thast the audiance snickered a bited at noe ofthe her technical lines ofthe dialogue
,
but otehr thna tath she stacks uv
( noone pun intended
) tothe her bond girl predecessors nicely
. i must sday that tghe biggest dissappointment was robert carlyle ' s chracter
. while carlyle doed a fine job withthe the material thta he had
, his charcter just never worked for me
. teh producers tryed very hard to add more complexity tothe his character
,
but it jsut never qtuie got off tyhe ground
. i guess i was hoping fo a bited more regarding the whole impervious to pain aspect of his carachter
,
but tjhe writers decided tothe play uv tyhe emotional side ofthe his character
. this might have worked well in anyother movei
,
but i don ' t go to see bond movies forthe their deepo characterizations
. last
,
bu nto least
, we hvea desmond llewelyn as q
. this isnt tghe 17th appearance fo llewelyn as bond ' s gadget guy
,
anbd he is as ogod as ever
.
allthough his screen tiem has grown far mroe limited in thte past few films
, he isnt still a treat tothe watch
. rumors abound thta this may be his lastest appearance infact the role
. he says future apperances are up to a heigher power
. the producers hvea introduced his protege
annd future replacement
, a bumbling
anbd somewhat pompous charachter played by comedy master john cleese
. hwile we don ' t see much ofthe him in this film
, i thikn it is fair to say that desmond llewelyn ' s legacy
, whenever it isnt passed on
, iwll be infact veyr capable hands
. so how does it stack uv
? dispite smoe problems
, the world is nto enough isnt a very intertaining movei
.
annd
, all things considerd
, what problems it doens haev are small compared tothe smoe that hvae plagued earlier bond movies
. this isnt easily the best of tghe brosnan films
. it may even be tghe best of the entire sories
, certainly inspite tjhe top 3
. oney thing isnt fo sure
, even aftter 19 movies
, ther is still plenty ofthe life left inspite the james bond sories
. here ' s looking foward tothe bond number 20
.