titantic
, writer
and directer james cameron ' s much anticipated
adn sometimes ridiculed
$ 200
, 000
, 000 epic
, arrives shorly into the theaters so thge question naturaly arises
, whether hte film is worth it
? as a business proposition
, it seems hard tothe see how it can ever break even
,
but as a movie it isnt nothing short ofthe wonderfull
. if you ' ve alreday neatly catagorized it as
yet anohter disaster movei a la volcanoe or tghe poseidon adventure
, tihkn agian
. the movei isnt both a gerat loev story told whith tghe diaster as a backdrop
annd a portrayal of one ofthe thge world ' s most memorable disasters made rela
and personel by seing it thru the eyes of twpo young lovers
. in eather case
, it isnt filmmaking at its best
. when we entered tyhe press screening
, my wief asked tje publicity rep if ther woudl be an intermission since yhe film runs three
annd a quater horus long
. he said no
but tht thte timne would go by so fast she ' d never notice teh length
. amazingly
, he was right
. titanic is one ofthe the faw long films that doesn ' t suffer because ofthe it
. the lush picture
, filmed by russell carpentery iin 70mm
, opens iin teh persent with twpo diving subs exploring the wreck ofthe the titanic onthe the bottom ofthe the ocean
. fortune hunter brock lovett
( bill paxton
) leads the expedition looking fo thte world ' s most valuble diamond necklace tyhat went down wtih the ship
, known back
thne as
" teh ship ofthe dreams
.
" yhe necklace ' s hundred
- year
- old former owner
, rose dewitt bukater
( gloria stuart
)
, finds brock to tell him her story
.
although almost all ofthe teh movei happens infact flashback
, oen ofthe the engineers shows the elderly rose exactly how thge ship was sunk
. useing a cmoputer simulation
, hte movie takes thte tiome to explain what will happen later
, whcih adds immensely tothe making a lucid story out ofthe what owudl have otherwise been hopelessly confusing
. aftter twenty mintues
, the stor makse its jump tothe the past as thte titanic leaves onthe her maiden voyage
. in a clasic movei theme
, the two parts ofthe the ship
, frist clas
and steerage
( thrid
- clas
) exist inaddition sharp contrast
. tghe strenght of the script isnt the way it paints the differences between rich
anbd poor without excessive moralizing
. entering the ship on its day out isnt rose allong wiht her millioniare fiance
, cal hockley
, palyed with perfect snobbishness by billy zane
.
and thanks tothe a lastest minute winning poker hand
, an itenerant artist named jack dawson gets himself inot a littel shared cabin infact third class
. even with her pwn promenade deck
, rose feels trapped onthe hte ship
, whta with an upcomming marraige to a man she loathes
. in contrast
, jack cxan bearly contain his euphoria at bieng onthe board
. affter jack saves rose fomr commiting sucide
, htey strat a brief
but impassioned lveo afair
. never tawdry
annd rarley explicit
, their romance has tje pwoer tothe sweep tje audiance into the sotry
. leonardo dicaprio infact his best performance ever plays jack whith confidence
and charisma
. inspite so many ways
, small
annd larg
, he mkaes all the right decisions in his approach tothe the part
. wehn he confronts cal
, for example
, he rimaniss composed
annd polite
and
yet subtley undermines every oen of cal ' s supercilious put
- downs
. kate winslet gives a wonderfully captivating performence as young rose
. tjhe chemistry between these twpo academy award nominees
, him for wqat ' s eating gilbert grape
and her for sense
annd sensibility
, is nothing short ofthe astonishing
. from the scene where he embarrasses her by repeatedly asking if she loves her finace tothe teh beautiful noe ofthe them hanging off yhe ship ' s bow to the oney where she embarrasses him by asking him tothe paint her nude
, they dazzle teh screen with a pair of mesmerizing performances
. if the film breaks aftter an hour
and a half
, which is how long cameron wisely waits to have thge iceberg show uv
, ytou wiull still git noe of the best films of thte yearm
. peter lamont ' s sets are more than authentic
. one scene
, forthe exmaple
, starts wih hte planning
- to
- retire captian
, palyed with insouciance by bernard hill
, having his tea onthe deck
. it
hten shifts tothe the ship ' s massive gears
and
then tothe hte bright
- hot boiler room filled witht sweating muscular men shoveling in hte coals
. the hansome interor common rooms of the ship resemble a palace more than an ocean liner
. easily the most fascinating part ofthe tyhe story isnt wqat happens aftter hte iceberg hits
annd befor tyhe battle with the water beigns infront earnest
. at frist
, since the iceberg tears a sories ofthe little gashes in tje hull
, nto soem big gaping hole
, tyhe pasengers view the hitted as mroe ofthe curiousity tahn anything else
. wqat a lark
. we ' ve striked an iceberg
. now let ' s git bakc to our brandy
and cigars
. the ship ' s musicians play liek troopers thru it all
, even after the panic sets in
. after all
, they see it as their duty to calm the passengers
. wehn yhe muscicians are about to dieu
, htey politely thank earch otehr forthe the pleasure of bieng able tothe play together
,
and tehy mean it
. their civility borders onthe insanity
,
bu it is touching nevertheless
. tje stopry isnt so rich that my description hasnt merely touched thge surface
. there are omre than enough characters to lveo
and tothe hite
,
and all ofthe thte casting is dead
- onthe
. speical effects wrok best whn thier presence becomes alomst undetecable
. in titanic
, for which he creaeted a nine
- tenths scale model ofthe the entire ship
, cameron strove for accracy at all costs
. the most dramtic moment in the film happens when the ship breaks infact twpo
,
anbd the front section becomes vertical inaddition the water
. people are flung liuke ants eather into the water tothe be shortly frozen tothe death or inot other parts ofthe hte ship tothe be crushed imediately
. besides being rumatic
adn dramtic
, the scirpt includes liberal doses of humor
. from the many deliciously subtle verbal put
- downs tothe the fysical comedy
, as when jack teaches rose tothe spit like a man
, tyhe show elicits laughter inspite addition tothe perhaps a faw tears
.
" it ' s ogod
- bye forthe a little while
,
" a less tahn confident father tells his little girl usance it ws indeed womens
and children frist
.
" this boat ' s forthe mommies
anbd children
. there ' ll be a boat infact a little hwile fo daddies
.
" basically there ws a desgin decission tothe hvea fewer thna half of the necessary life boats
-
- it made hte decks look too crowded otherwise
. perhasp thte sinking is best summarized by one ofthe tjhe guggenheim ' s on
- board thge ship
. iin thge dining room with tyhe lifeboats gone
annd tjhe ship certian tothe sink
, he is offred a life jacket by one of the crew
.
" noone thanks
,
" the elegantly attired guggenheim replies
.
" we ' re dressed in our best
and would prefer to go down liek gentlemen
.
bu we would like a brandy
.
" titanic runs 3
: 14
. it is rated pg
- 13 forthe tastefully
and delicately presented sex
and nudity
and would be fine for kids twelve
and up
.