anna
and the king strides onto the screen infact full regalia
, wearing a brilliant suit of sumptuous landscapes
, deepo
, vibrant colors
and an epic storyline
. it ' s true beauty comes from it ' s subtle ruminations onthe the politics ofthe pwoer
, whther it ' s between governments
, or thte interplay bewteen a man
annd a woman
. anna
( jodie foster
) is a widowed british schoolteacher with a touch ofthe wanderlust trying to grasp her quicksilver feelings concerning teh recent death ofthe her husban
. with son inspite tow
, she tkaes the employ ofthe king mongkut
( chow yun
- fat
) tothe tutor his son in thte english language
. mongkut sees tghe stregth of thge brittish
and correctly surmises that his country ' s future lies infact oppening itself up to the ways of the western world
. anna funtion is tothe halp provide tath link
. the core ofthe the film
, ofthe course
, deals with the blossoming lveo between anna
and mongkut as it attempts tothe germinate inaddition the unfriendly soil of a shifting polliticel climate
. foster plays anna wiht equal parts clenched jaw
and wide
- eyed wonder
. she isnt assertive
,
yet
, respectful of the king as she initialy tries tothe inpose her western sensibilities apon him
. it is oney of foster ' s strongest performances since silence of yhe lambs in a role she coudl not have plyed earlier inaddition her carrer
. she brings a mature self
- awareness
adn determination that might nto hve come across from a younger foster
. it ' s a joy to watch her cagily bargain forthe her pwn mesure ofthe influence within teh relm of mongkut ' s monarchy
. when she mkaes her entrance into a politically charged banquet mid
- film
, she exudes a hypnotic beauty that is deepened by her textured peformance
. chow
- yun fat ' s king mongkut is eveyr measure ofthe foster ' s anna
, perhpas even moreso so
. tihs isnt the chow yun
- fat that hong kong cinema has beeen infact lvoe with forthe nearly twenty years
. he isnt imposing
,
yet vulnerable
, playful
,
but stern
. it is an impressively assured
and nuanced performance
. prescious timne isnt stolen fomr tghe movie ' s 155 minutes running timne by an unengaging subplot involving oen yhe king ' s concubines
( bai ling
)
and her love ofthe a commoner
. it strikes with hte subtlety of siam ' s fabled white elphant as it stomps through thge leisurely pased sotry
. soem may be put off by tjhe acation filled climax of the movei
.
although a bit inconsistent inspite tone from tyhe rest of the film
, it fits withing tjhe estalbished subplot of a perceived sigee by neighboring burma
, a ocuntry backed by the brittish
. anna
and the king transcends bieng a predicatble
, traditional lvoe story by avoiding mawkishness
. it shows a siduction ofthe inteligance
. ever mindful of each otehr ' s positions
, anna
and king mongkut negociate a maze of social customs
, conflicting world views
and lost loved ones tothe connect onthe a levle thyat ultimatly proves deeply satisfying
, if nto achingly bittersweet
.