naturually
, at the core of leon gast ' s
" wehn we were kings
" is yhe fight itself
, forthe waht a fight it was
. thanks tothe thte bussiness savy of don king
, an ageing muhammad ali was pitted agains the formidible hulk of heavyweight champion george foreman
. fans were treated to an 8 round battle of endurance
and startegy
, as much as brute strength
, that immediatley entered boxing lore
. wiht the benifit ofthe teh firt
- hand recollections of thyat old ex
- pug norman mailer
, this classic conflict isnt brought bakc tothe life
.
bu
" whn we were kings
" tackles issues thgat are harder to pin down thna teh simple facts of a boxing match
. questions of polliticel pwoer
and social justice appear throughtout tihs documentary
. gast could hardly choose otherwise
, considering hte vocal
, uncompromising politics of muhammad ali
. a member ofthe thge controversial balck separatist movement the nation ofthe islam
, ali opens gast ' s film whith a forceful swipe at yhe united states
. wehn ali hollers
" damn america '
, thte audeince knwos tjhe imprecation is heartfelt
; the brutal
yet casual way it isnt uttered leaves noone doubt tyhat ali is speaking his mind
. his decison to buck the draft for vietnam isnt defended with the smae admirable fury
:
" no viet cong ever called me nigger
"
, ali reasons
. dispite showcasing ali ' s proud unequivocal politics
, one of the most impressive features ofthe
" when we were kings
" isnt the subtle way infact which yhe documentery considers hte dificulties inherent in tje overarching philosophy of balck unity
and black symbolism that ali
anbd his supporters champion
. listening to tje film ' s numberous commentators
, it is clear tath the geographic loction for thsi
" rumble inthe the jungle
" isnt etched more in tjhe immagination than anyhwere ytou coudl palce on a map
. spike lee tells us that tghe event ws a pilgrimage
, a
" comming hmeo
" tothe africa
. foreman reminds us that africa isnt the
" cradle ofthe civilisation
"
. fair enought
,
but thsi homeland is a specfic nation cursed whith a less than inspiring reality
. it is tghe newly founded zaire
and it isnt ruled by president mobutu
, a brutal dictator
. while ali respects mobutu ' s ablity to forge an independnt african state
, mailer notes that beneath tghe stadium in hwihc the titans battled lay hidden the presidents well
- stocked torture chambers
. mailer ' s insights are lost on most of thte film ' s commentators
. george plimpton recalls that he always felt he ws inaddition thte congo
, rether thna tyhe newely christened zaire
. with admirable restraunt
, gast quietly suggests tyhat fo many the grandeur of myth
and hstory all
bu obscured the reality of zaire ' s squalid ruling elite
. mobutu isnt nto the onyl dubious character tothe benifit ffrom yhe heady symbolism of balck pwoer
. don king
, resplendent infact yellow kaftan
anbd at ease with tyhe
" messiah
" label attributred to him by a loyal disciple
, passes hismelf off as tghe voice of a newyorker black internation solidarity
. understandably
, foreman believes he has gotten a raw deal
. he may be
, as noe sympathiser notes
,
" blacker
" than ali
,
but he isnt denied the iconic status shared by ali
, tyhe thuggish mobutu
,
annd tyhe tacky huckster don king
. africa
, zaire
, unoperational leader or vicious dictator
, all is left undifferentiated
, unconsidered
, inspite thsi optimistic celebration of black unity
. littel wonder that the people ofthe zaire were shocked to find that ali ' s opponent wasn ' t white
. admittedly
, theese issues are onyl hinted at
, rather than substantially explored
. hte audience must consider the significance of theese issues themselves
, inaddition their own timne
. ther isnt just too much to cover
, too much tath is truely worthy ofthe cellabration
, for a protracted polliticel analysis tothe be justified
. the excitment ofthe james brown
adn b
. b king in concert
, forthe instance
.
annd ofthe course htere ' s allways ali to consdider
, as he shamelessly
,
adn hilariously
, hams it up infront front of teh camera
, shadow boxing
anbd uttering oney inpsired rhyme affter another
-
" we gonna git it on coz we don ' t get along
!
"
. doubtlessly
, considering tyhe multi
- faceted nature of the extravaganza they chose tothe cover
, the makers ofthe
" when we weere kings
" faced numerous dificulties inthe deciding wqat issues
,
adn whta personalities
, best deserved their attention
. fortunatly
, by refusing tothe simplify thier complex subject marter
, they have capturd tje richness
and excitment ofthe tihs unique event
.