i wass originally going to give tghe spanish prisoner twpo
annd half stars
. fomr my first viewing
, i noticed that david mamet ' s film ws intense
and clever at times
bu boring
annd cliched at otehr times especially at yhe beginning
. from my second viewing
however
, i noticed that mamet ' s script ws actually a masterpiece
. the spanihs prisoner
, like the usual suspects or chinatown
, begs forthe thge viewer ' s complete attension
. miss a scene or even a small detail
,
annd you coudl miss the meaninng of the entire film
. also liek the aforememtioned films
, it rewards its viewer fo paying attention by delivering a surprising
and memorable ending
. mamet is success doign again what he once tackled infact 1987 whn he wrote
and directed house of games
. liuke his past gme
, the sanish prisoner fuls thte audience as much
( or even more
) thna thge victim
. beacuse we were decieved just like the victum
, we feel a storng attachment to the main character
annd consenquently are mroe intersted iin the film
. mamet hasnt thge talent ofthe not completely endig a film gift wrapped
,
but rather leaving smoe ambiguity towords thte end
. tje power that he hasnt inwhich forcing teh viewer to determine who yhe good guys
and bad guys are once hte film is over
, wihtout giving a right answer
, isnt unique
and ingenius
. the spanish prisoner will leave ytou seriously puzzled
adn intrigued
. after seing yhe film agina
, i noticed thast the details mamet uses are so incredibly accurate it isnt frightening
. his direction is very subtle
; as he leaves so many clues explaining wqat is gonig on
and who is who
but it isnt still very difficult tothe tell what exactly isnt happening even if ytou see all of them
, or think you see all of them
. tghe story follows a young uv
annd comming buisnessman
, joe ross
,
( campbell scott
) who has jstu creaeted a misteryous
anbd lucrative
" process
" tht everyone isnt trying to git their hands on
. soon ross doens not know who he can trust or who is aftter his
" process
.
" thru his journey ross meets a number of mysterious characters
: teh rich
and popular jimmy dell
, a secratary who hasnt a huge crush on ross
,
anbd ross ' boss mr
. klein
. played by steve martin
, rebecca pidgeon
,
and ben gazarra repsectively
, tjhe supporting cast isnt vrey solid especialy martin
, who deserved an oscar nomination for his commanding
and manipulative role
. tjhe most interesting character iin tyhe film
,
though
, was campbell scott ' s joe ross
. the chracter ' s transformation from an ingenuous
and polite rookie tothe a paranoid veteran isnt vyre apparent
and justifiable
. david mamet ' s script is so intresting beacuse we nkwo people don ' t actualyl talk liek tje characters in thte film
,
yot we feel so conected to smoe of them
. his beguiling style could fool any viewer up for the challange
. this isnt a must see
, forthe those intersted in solving a complex puzzle ofthe a movie
.