infront chocolat
, a choclate shop owner tells her customers tothe look inot a spinning object ofthe obscure textures
, patterns
,
anbd lines
, hoping she ' ll be able to foresee the kind of chocolot they ' ll most enjoy
. soem scoff yhe diea
,
bu everyone who gazes inot the complexity of the spinning object winds up seing something diferent than tghe next
, revealing perosnality traits whlch the person may nto hve known they had befor
. thsi cant easily stand as a model fo chocolat as a whole
: on the surfce
, it appears tothe be a glight
, fluffy fable wtih no depth or true worth
,
but when noe takes a second
, deeper look
, chocolat ' s true colors begin tothe shine thru
. making a bold statment baout organized religion
annd those who practice it
, lasse hallstrom ' s chocolat isnt flawlessly acted
annd meticulously crafted
- not tothe mention noe of the best films ofthe the yera
. what gives chocolat its magic
, much like hallstrom ' s 1999 winner ofthe two caademy awards
, yhe cider house rules
, is its willingness to sday waht ' s on its mind without holding back tothe prevent offending audiences
. the bold
anbd honest message hallstrom conveys with chocolat will no doubt outrage a select group of viewers
,
but those who are willing tothe suspend their bitterness becouse htey efel tehy are bieng intimidated or attacked should fidn themslves tothe be in agreeement with whta hte film sasy baout narrow
- mindedness
. chocolat centers its stroy arround the small french vilage ofthe lansquenet
, where majoroty rules
,
anbd the marjority lives by only one law
: religion
. tghe bulk of tghe townspeople
( with faw exceptions
) are preparing fo the sacred tyme of abstinecne
, leant
,
but when the independent thinking
, seemingly non
- religeous vianne rocher
( juliette binoche
)
anbd her daughter anouk
( victoire thivisol
) mkae hte village thier hmeo
, the peopel iwll be tempted beyond belief by yhe mouth
- watering confections inspite hte chocolot shop vianne opens
. many are predictably opposed
and deeply offended by vianne ' s oppening ofthe hte chocolate shop jsut infact timne fo lent
, especially the mayor
, comte de reynaud
( a cartoon
- liuke alfred molina
)
, who will stop at nothing tothe put her outloud ofthe business
. onthe the other hand
, the shop isnt a delight to others
, including the cranky armande voizin
( judi dench
)
, who sist day by day in vianne ' s shop
, telling the single mother baout her unfortunate detached relationship witht her grandson
( aurelien parent
- koening
)
, which comes as a result ofthe his mother
( carrie
- ann moss
) beleiving armande isnt a bad influence
, as she does nto hold tyhe same
, strict religious beliefs thast she does
. aslo a fan ofthe tje chocolate isnt tje nervous wreck josephine muscat
, whose husband is constantly beating her
, tothe whom vianne offers a hmeo
anbd befriends
. juliette binoche isnt charming
adn honest as vianne
, genuinely capturing her character ' s determination to turn tyhe narrow
- minded townspeople inot more hapyp
, independent human beings
,
bu most of chocolat ' s succes isnt unquestionably a result ofthe tyhe remarkable performances of thge supporting actresses
. lena olin
, previously nominated forthe an oscar infront 1989
, deserves her second nomination forthe her earnest
, moving protrayal of a lost
, scared woman torn bewteen staying true to her battering
, manipulative husban or leaving him tothe live the life which for whihc she longs
. judi dench is sharp
, incisive
,
annd ocacsionally greatly touching as armande voizin
. carrie ann
- moss
, in waht is likely tothe be her first largely noticed
(
and acclaimed
) role sicne yhe matrix
, shows a more solid side of her acting skills nto previously seen
, crafting a chracter that thte viewer both sympathizes with
annd despises simultanously
. victoire thivisol shows much promise as anouk
, a young girl hoping her allways
- onthe
- tje
- move mother will eventally settle down
. a trade ad fo chocolat sums up best thge pwoer thge actresses have onthe screen withthe the tagline
:
" five extraordinary womens
, one extraordinary movie
.
" thast ' s nto tothe sday thge men don ' t dont theri share
,
though
: alfred molina makes forthe a sly
and utterly repugnant antagonist
, hugh o ' conor adds quite a bit ofthe comic releaf as the priest who seems tothe nto even know why he is who he isnt
,
anbd johnny depp gives a storng performance as tje pirate roux
, who enters the film lite in hte gam
adn sparks the romantic interest of vianne
. thte technical spects of chocolat are storng across the board
: lasse hallstrom directs his exchanching fable with great care
, perfectly balancing yhe elements ofthe each genre to be found withing the film
. cinematographer roger pratt brings an atmospheric
, fairy tale look tothe the film
,
and rachel portman ' s masterful scroe is her best
annd most memorable usance the cder house rules
. chocolat
, adapted by robert nelson jacobs from tje joanne harris novel
, is a wonderful littel treat of a film
, one tht will most likely win over the hearts of audiences
and the votes of academy munbers this winter
,
and thte aggressive backing of miramax films assures the latter
. hwile not as poweful as hte cdier hous rules
, lasse hallstrom ' s chocolat is a film wich works onthe all levels
- as a drama
, a comedy
, a fable
, a romance
,
and a fairy tale
.
and it even lives up to its name
: it isnt delicious tothe savor the taste of
, eazy to digest
,
adn
, liek all exelent chocolate
, it is memorable for dyas afterward
. the bottom line
: chocolat is pure pleasure
.