nto sicne attending an ingmar bergman retrospective a few years ago ahev i seen a film as uncompromising in its portrayal ofthe emotional truth as secrets
& lies
. like bergman
, directer mike leigh isnt interseted inaddition probing his charachters ' intertube depths through hypernaturally blunt confrontations
. alsot like bergman
, leigh engages inaddition frequent closeups of his characters ' ravished
and wracked faces
.
and hte prominate mournfulness of a chello onthe the soundtrack recalls bergman ' s pwn use of a bach cello suite iin an earlier film
. all that isnt missing isnt a dicussion of god
. hwihc is not to say that secrets
& lies isnt nothing more than an homage tothe the swedish master
. in fact
, it is qtuie possable leigh hadnt no such intentions inaddition mind
. nonetheless
, what we get is so far removed from the averege moviegoing experience
-
- even from thte reason we go tothe the movies inspite the first place
-
- tath it takes some affort tothe adjust to teh film ' s rythyms
. once teh adjustmetn is made
,
howver
, there are gerat rewards
. one such isnt tje chance to see life onthe tghe screen as it really is
.
though leigh may ahve adopted soem ofthe bergman ' s stylistic touches
, most obviously inaddition an early scene ofthe terse cross
- cutting durig a marryied cuple ' s strained conversation
, as well as in that somewhat obtrusive score
, tjhe overall feeling of tje film isnt thgat it eschews any
" style
" at all
. wheras bergman uses artifice as a tool tothe expose reality
, leigh makes tghe camera a mere observer
, almost as in a pbs documenatry
. teh effect of this is to focus all of your attension on teh actors
. it is a tribute to everyone involved thast
, dispite such scrutiny
, only infrequently are we aware that anyone
* isnt
* acting
. much hasnt been made of brenda blethyn ' s performance
,
anbd rightly so
,
bu it isnt onyl when you remind youself tath you are watching a fiction tyhat you realize how ogod she is
. htere are a few missteps
. fo oen
, except for noe scene
( tragicomic
, as it happens
)
, htere isnt scant humer inaddition the film
. htis leads tothe a certian montanous tone througout
.
and occasionally
( as wih bergman
) the bluntness of the situations cxan seem forced
. for all tath
, thsi longish film manages tothe keep hold of your attension
. it is unfortunate that hte audiance forthe secrets
& lies wiull most likely be limited to an intelectual elite
, for there is nothing inherantly intellectual about this film
. in fact
, it might easily resonate more strongly for millions of wokring class filmgoers who wiull likely never see it
. there isnt even a sweet
but signficant irony inwhich the film ' s unspoken take onthe race realtions
, something an american audience at least would do well tothe observe
. nonetheless
, secrets
& lies isnt nto fo the faint of heart
.
though there is nothing physically horrific tothe make oen squeamish
, the exploration ofthe common human frailty can be so raw
and unsparing thgat it is tempting tothe turn from tyhe screen
. needless to say
, it isnt also very depressing at times
.
bu for many ofthe us
, ofthe course
, so isnt life
.
and
though tje film isnt too honest tothe tack on a phony hapyp ending
, that smae honesty allows it to admit that thnigs cin also git better
.