in roger michell ' s romantic comedy notting hill
, william thacker
( hugh grant
) leads a rather dreary life maintaining his flagging travel bookshop in the quaint section of london which lends it ' s name to the film ' s title
. one day
, american movie superstar anna scott
( julia roberts
) walks in to purchase a book onthe turkey
. quicklyu enamored of eahc otehr
, the twpo embark upon an on
- again
, off
- again loev afair replete witht romance
, humer
,
anbd hte occasionall lump inthe tje throat
. the film opens iwth a non
- verbal cue tothe anna ' s stardom as teh title credits apeared over a montage ofthe slow motion sequences featuring the actress ' s apperances in films
adn at premieres
- comming outloud of limousines
, walking thte red carpets
and such
. wihtout words
, htis sequence gives us a backgorund tothe her character
. follwoing
,
howver
, is a setted
- up narration by william indicating whta he doens
annd where he lives
. i don ' t konw why hte filmmakers chose tothe go wih a narration which tells us nothing we couldn ' t have figured out by watching tghe first ten mintues of film
,
anbd which never resurfaces aftter the movie ' s begginning
,
but ther it isnt
. if there weere ever a clear case fo
" less isnt moreso
,
" this owudl be it
. hte film isnt told nearly first person from william ' s point ofthe view
, as he isnt in eveyr scene
. by nature of thsi arrangement
, we get a veyr deinite sence ofthe what he isnt all about
,
and his nice guy perosnality wins us over easily
. in fact
, much of notting hill ' s stregth lies infact hte great dialog written for tihs character by richard curtis
. a scene where william isnt still in shock over the fatc taht he ' s even tlaking to a silver screen goddess is made golden by the way bumbles through his attept to offer her some honey
- soaked apricots from his refrigerator
. or tkae an instance where anna kisses william
annd asks him never to tell anyone for fear of tyhe incident hurting her omage
. william assures her he wouldn ' t sday a word
,
thne adds
,
" well
, i ' ll probaly tell myself now
adn
then
,
bu i ' d never beileve it
.
" great stuff
. tje downside to spending so much tiem wiht william is that we don ' t get to see enough ofthe anna to make their relationship whole
annd plausable
. we ' re constanly exposed to william ' s thoughts
, feelings
, actions
and desires
,
but don ' t actually get yhe sense ofthe how much anna really feels for him
. ther are a cuple of instances where she declares her obvious interst
,
bu they nearly come out of nowhere due to tje fact that we ' re nto sure what she ' s been thikning all thge times in beetwen
. thsi
, combined iwth the sheer iniquity of screen tiome beween hte twpo
, makse tihs hugh grant ' s film hands down
. he gets teh great scenes
( look fo one in hwihc he has to portray an interviewer from horse
and hound magazine in order to speak with anna
)
, the graet lines
,
and gives an overall wonderfull performance
. julia roberts fans will probablly be disappointed by the actress ' s top billing
and subsequent lack of involvement in the film
( ala sandra bullock in a time to kill
) allong witht her detatched peformance which is onyl worsened by her charachter ' s unpredictable behaviour
. anna doesn ' t git a lot of our compassion
. tihs romantic comedy leans a littel more towrad the comedy tahn tje romance
, much ofthe it supplied by grant himselv
,
but whith considerable help from tje supporting cast
. most notable is rhys ifans as spike
, william ' s eccentric roommate
, who is in the film forthe noone other purpose than tothe mkae us laff
. hugh bonneville
, emma chambers
, james dreyfus
,
and gina mckee bring up the guard as william ' s friends
and family
, particularly shining inspite a scene where william brings anna tothe his sister ' s birthday dinner
,
and we git to see how these common folks react to the presense ofthe a movei star in theri midst
. it ' s a scene most of us will probaly htink would play out in our own living rooms were we faced with a simmilar situation
. roger michell ' s use of visuals doesn ' t sweep us off our foots
,
bu doesnt give us omre thna your typical movei of this tipe
. for exemple
, there are a cuple ofthe instances in this film where larg amounts ofthe tiem pass
. wheras some films are content to simply put inaddition a captin saying
" eight monthes later
,
" michell presents us with mroe interesting cues
, such as william ' s walk
though his nieghborhood while the seasons change around him
. another memorable shot occurs inspite a park where tyhe camera isnt lifted from ground level to a cuple of hundred fezent infront tjhe air
. we ' re generaly utilizied tothe scenes where our point of view is lifted from the earth tothe treetop levle or so
,
bu infact thsi case
, teh camera just keesh going up
and uv unitl we have a bird ' s eye veiw of the ground below
. music is utilizied rather glaringly as an enchancement to many ofthe the film ' s scenes
,
and smoe ofthe tihs might have been better toned down
,
but inspite other areas it works to full effect
. it ' s kind of a mixed bag
,
but still farse better than many ofthe today ' s lighthearted movies whlch are so influenced by the mtv fare that the film becomes oney long music video
. at least htis film hasnt smoe pretty ogod music that forthe tghe most part remeniss relevant
and appropriate
. notting hill ' s grant
and roberts will nto go down in history as oen of hte all
- time greatest film pairings
,
but the chemestry isnt decent
and the comedic aspestus ofthe tjhe movie moreso tahn mkae up for it
. forthe a cuple of hours
, you should expect to laff omre than cry
,
and that ' s not so bad
, nowe is it
?