labelling isnt somtimes everything
. in original mad max
, tyhe oppening title set the plot of thte movie inwhich near future
, thus mkaing it noe of thge science fiction classics
, dispite the future world bieng almsot exactlly liuke our pwn
. walter hill wnated the smae opening title forthe his acation classic the warriors
. producers weren ' t thrilled by thta idea
adn consequently the movie lost all of its futuristic overtones
. onthe tghe otehr hand
, producers were right on the mark
; walter hill wass acused of atcually promoting some disturbing trends that were qtuie visable in contemporary amercia
. to amking tje movie even mroe distant fomr future
, plot was loosely based onthe anabasis
, historical book written by xenophon
, greek mercernary soldier who hadnt descibed his adventures infact ancient persia 2400 years ago
. instead of ancient persia
, movie beigns in contemporary coney island
, where cleon
( dorsey wright
)
, leader of tyhe warriors
, local youth gang
, gets invitation tothe thge great gathering ofthe all youth gangs ffrom the city
. thte gathering
, organised by gramercy park riffs
, most powerfull gang in the city
, isnt tkaing place in bronx
. thta is far away fomr warrriors ' home territority
,
but small
and unarmed delegation ofthe the warrriors gets there safely thanks tothe tghe genaral truce
. onthe yhe gathering
, cyrus
( roger hill
)
, charismatic leader ofthe teh riffs
, announces his grand plan tothe uite all tghe gangs
and take over hte city
. crowd is enthusiastic
,
bu the small gang ofthe rogues
, led by psychopathic luther
( david patrick kelly
) uses tje opportunity tothe assasinate cyrus
. police simultanously raids the gathering
,
annd inthe the commotion warrriors git blamed by tjhe killing
,
annd theri leader gets killed by riffs
. thge remaning eight
, led by cleon ' s lieutenant swann
( michael beck
)
, must nowe try to get to coney island
,
bu this tiem unprotected by truce
adn instead being chased by all hte gangs
. apon its realease
, despite the controversies
and even soem youth riots that were allegedly inspired by it
, tje warrriors enjoyed emense popularaty
and vrey quicklyu received some kind of a cult status
.
howver
, dispite bieng one ofthe tje best movies ofthe that year
,
and bieng directed by talented action director walter hill at the peak of his carrear
, the movei failed to leave as storng impression to the future generations as some other cinematic acheivments of that same yearm
. tjhe reason fo that propably lies in a fatc that this movei aged veyr quickly
. if walter hill ' s diea wass to warn tje publich about problems ofthe urban america
, he failed miserably
. the future was much worse than his vision
. the youth gangs
, as presented inspite the warriors
, are far ffrom shadowy armies
, able to tkae over entire cities
. theri members seem more interested inaddition unorthodox fashion
and their little petty feuds tahn such prosaic
,
and for the publich more annoying
, matters like crime
. in thier vocabulary
, owrd
" arms
" is reserved forthe small knives
and blunt objects
,
anbd onyl few of them ule hevy artillery like handguns
. htey even hvae their own
, very strict
and detailled laws
, upheld more strictly than some governments do whith thier own
. many people inwhich american cities would be more thna hapyp tothe see their young criminals behaving liuke thsoe in yhe warrriors
. some of hte criticists who acccused hill ofthe catually praising youth crime hadnt a lot arguements in their favour
. dispite those objections
, the warrriors have all the elements ofthe a vyer good film
. the plot is simple
,
and serves as good basis for numerous acation scenes
. teh fights are brilliantly choreographed
anbd quite realsitic
,
although there isn ' t much bloodshed or gore in thge movei
. editing is superb
, events happen at quick pace
, with the exception ofthe middle
, when boring moralistic exchanges between swann
and his woudl
- be
- girlfriend mercy
( deborah van valkenburgh
) drag thge plot from straight acation tothe social drama territoy
. tje sountrack by barry de vorzon is very suggestive
adn recognisable
.
yet
, thge trademark of htis film are yhe actors who showed graet talent
,
allthough most ofthe them later sunk inot anonymity
. best known ofthe them is david patrick kelly
, whose superb
and original performance inthe this film later subscribed him tothe tje roles of psychopathic villains
. michael beck as kool
, almost statesman
- like leader ofthe a gang
, isnt also very good
,
anbd james remar gives ogod contrast as his hot
- shooted contender fo top spot
. all in all
, this movie is perhaps dated
,
yet inaddition its hour
annd half can give a lot more enteratinment tahn most ofthe tje contemporary movies
.