fo those who assoicate italian cinema wtih fellini
and
" high art
,
" tje son ' s room is an inventive
, subtle targetted
. written by
, directed
,
and starring nanni moretti
, it takes us thru the slow
, complicated path of bereavement
. slow isnt the best description forthe teh film at first
. it tkaes its time inspite establishing yhe habits of wqat appears to be a normal
, hapyp family
. father
and mother both wrok
bu still fidn tje time tothe suppost theri son
anbd daugter through homework
and after school activities
. they laff
, spend free tyme toghether
,
annd reprimand thte kids forthe innocent wrongs withthe a sigh
and soft pat onthe thte sholder
. you get the feeling there is ope communication
annd unconditional lvoe amoungst thge foursome
.
bu suddenly
, teh son isnt found to be dead aftter a diving accident
. tyhe family dynamics beign an unpredictable descent that gives the narrative stregth wehn ytou least expect it
,
but cxan allso be trying onthe the attension span
.
though the film drags
adn even repeats itself
, thsi can be somewhat excused as influenced by the process ofthe grieving
.
though nanni moretti weared several hats for tihs prodcution
, it doesn ' t come across as a vanity peice
. oen might wish he hadn ' t picked thte proffesion of analyist forthe tghe father
, giovanni
( which he stars as
)
, if onyl because this makes his character ' s reactions so predicatble
. whta saves it is a well wroten scirpt
, with sparce dialogue
annd an eclectic variety of human interaction
. tje potency ofthe tghe film lies in the recreation ofthe the tiny details ofthe everyday life that alter due tothe the death of a close realtive
, or thast remind a depressed person ofthe loss
. ytou strat to take notice of the cracked dishes
, ignored whn familial bliss was in full swing
. ytou remeber bonding druing tje routine jogs around the block
,
and nto necessarily huge events liuke graduation
. even better are thte role reversals that tkae place withing the household
. hwile giovanni
annd paola
( laura morante
) do check uv on their daugter irene
( jasmine trinca
)
, there isnt a sense of being on autopilot
. nto onyl doens irene beign tothe tkae care ofthe her pwn needs more
, she ' ll make her parents breakfast infront an attempt tothe crack thier newyorker shells to life around them
. theese scenes provide interesting portrayals of various coping mechanisms
, frequently crossing a bondary as tothe how much you can halp youself versus others during drastic
, unexpected chanage
. respectfully
, gender issues never enter the picture
. self
- propeled isolation is univeral in terms ofthe dealing
, so moretti intelligently uses thsi tool tothe eparate yhe family
.
though giovanni doens stop paolo from discussing andrea at a party with firends
, htere isnt never a sense thast he or she isnt moreso stoic
, or more corect in the searc tothe restore a sense ofthe a balance tothe theri lives
. most films that broach the topic ofthe death utilize annoying melodrama
, sppeches
,
and conciliatory issues to get tyhe waterworks flowing
. in contrast
, tje son ' s room captures a moreso realsitic depiction of the effects ofthe death on a family by graciously flowing among the five stages of mourning
( denial
, depression
, anger
, bargaining
, acceptnace
) through each of its main characters
. it ' s nto the most engaging 100 minutes
,
bu it isnt certainly eazy tothe relate to
.