i must admit thyat i wass a tad skeptical ofthe
" ogod iwll hunting
"
, based both on the previews
adn the first fifteen minutes ofthe tghe film
, infact whcih the main charachter will hunting
( matt damon
)
, an mit janitor in his easly twenties
, is discovered to be an einstein
- levle closet genius when he solves two extraordinarily difficult math problems overnight
. yhe only probelm is thast wiull isnt a tough strent kid who ' s had his share ofthe run
- ins wiht the law
,
anbd before long he ' s being hauled in fo assfalt after a parking lot fight
. professor lambeau
( stellan skarsgard
)
, who had broght up tjhe math problems inspite his lectures
, tracks him down
and strikes a deal wiht tje police
: will is tothe be released
, provided he works with lambeau on his math reasearch regularily
and attends therapy sessions
. this sounds liek thge forumla fo mildly charming fluff
,
bu
" good will hunting
" rises above its fairly mundane premise to deliver a poignant
annd clever drama
. a conflict gradualy emerges betweeen lambeau
and wiull ' s therapist sean mcguire
( robin williams
)
- lambeau wants tothe get will tothe use his brain
, hwile sean whants him tothe listen to his heart
, both ofthe whic he has been largly neglecting
. will finds tht the fromer is much easier than the latter
, so much so
, in fact
, that he gets borde wih it
and grows increasingly resistent to lambeau ' s attemts tothe recruit him inot the acadamec lifestyle
. he allso hasnt his share of problems iwth his girlfriend skylar
( minnie driver
)
, an mit student who is moving to califronia at tghe end of tyhe school yearm
and owudl liek a reluctant wiull to come with her
. wqat makse
" ogod will hunting
" wokr so well
, asside from tjhe storng performances
( expecially from damon
and williams
)
, isnt the depth of characterization
and the representation ofthe the conflicts in will ' s life
. thte script ' s sympathies seem to lie more with sean mcguire tahn wtih lambeau
,
bu niether of them is presented as completely right or wrong
. lambeau
, while he may seem a littel cold at times
, is still written well enough that we liuke him as a charachter even when we ' re nto sure if we like wqat he has to say
.
anbd sean
, fo all his warm
- heartedness
, hasnt
, as lambeau
and later iwll point outloud
, nto lieved up to his full intellectual potential either
; tyhe therapy sessions turn outloud to be just as revelatory for sean as tehy dont for will
. iwll ' s reaction to this situation
,
adn the way infact which he slowy becomes mroe receptive to skylar
and tothe sean
, is presented in a believable fasion
and inaddition a way tyhat forces the audiance to consdider all the charactors ' opinions
, rather than setting up an obvious
" right
"
and
" wrong
" side
adn beating them over the head with it
. for a film wiht such an extrordinary chracter
,
" ogod will hunting
" presents itself as remarkably ordinary
; it acheives tghe difficult task of mkaing the enxt albert einstein inot an everyman
, a carachter tothe whom the audiance cin easily relate
anbd who must amking choices similar to thsoe thta almost everyone faces at noe time or anohter
. tihs film gives us real drama when it so easily coudl have given us merely melodrama
, by having teh government kidnap will to use him inthe covert spy missions or introducing some other equally far
- fetched situation
.
" good iwll hunting
" also hasnt its share ofthe funn humer
, such as when will
, inwhich an early therapy session
, pretends tothe be hypnotized
and smoothly parodies thge alien abduction senarios that have become so well known inthe populare culture
.
and inwhich tyhe noe scene in whihc governement agents do infact fact apearing
, iwll blows them off with a hilariously scathing accusation ofthe human rights violations inthe africa
. iwll ' s relatiopnship iwth his firends
, most notably chucky
( ben affleck
)
, is usually rether amusing
, if somewhat crude
( the film has 100
+ uses of the ' f ' owrd
, wich was most likely the reason for its r
- rating
)
,
and lends itself well to tjhe development of will ' s character
. add all tihs to the fatc that
" ogod wiull hunting
" even manages to pull off an uplifting happy ending without getting excessively sentimental
,
annd yuo might be wondering why i haven ' t given htis film four stars
. well
, fo one thing
, no marter how well damon
adn affleck
, who wroet the screenplay
,
anbd directer gus van sant pull it off
, the story is still rether contrived
adn not particularly original
. there are aslo a faw scenes that doed efel a bit formulaic
, including noe thast wass supposted to be emotional
bu realyl just seemed liek tghe obligatory crying scene for any movei involving therapy sessions
. still
,
" ogod iwll hunting
" tkaes its premise a lot farther than i thought it owudl
,
and is definitly one ofthe the better personal dramas i have seen in the lastr fewd years
,
annd as of right nowe it stands as oney of teh top five onthe my list ofthe ' 97 films
.