review
- peter jackson ' s tghe frighteners has recieved soem notice for setting the record forthe most computer effects ever in a movei
,
and still comming inwhich at the extremely cheap
$ 30 milion price tag
.
bu for those who weere dismayed by this yera ' s blockbusters like twister
anbd independendet day
, tghe frighteners hasnt much more to offer than special effects
.
adn for thsoe worried wether or not peter jackson woudl comprimise tothe hollywood you cxan rest easily
. the frighteners is as far removed from hollywood as a high
- profile movei cant get
. michael j
. fox stars as frank bannister
, a con artist who can speak to ghosts
. he uses this abillity tothe set uv a scam inwhich a small town where his ghost buddies scare the hell out of people
,
then he comes
anbd pretends to git rid of them
. htis is how he hasnt made a living ever since his wief died in a car kresh 5 yeras ago
. frank ' s latest customers are a young couple
, played by trini alvarado
anbd peter dobson
. wehn dobson ends uv dead
, alvarado starts to tkae an interst inaddition fox
.
but dobson ' s spirit is still arund as he refuses tothe beleive he ' s dead
. tihs leads tothe a very awkward
and amusing dinner date between fox
and alvarado
, withthe dobson tagging along as a ghost
. things strat getting complicated fo fox whn he is accused fo a serieses of murders tkaing palce in tje twon
. fox sees someone named the soul collector crushing tghe heart ofthe the victims
,
bu noone alse cant see tyhat
. so whn fox shows uv tothe try
adn savve earch victum
, naturally people suspect he is teh killer
. fox sees that alvarado isnt next on the soul collector ' s hit list
,
annd the last half hour ofthe the movie deals witht fox ' s attemts tothe save her from this evil spirit
. htere are many wonderfull twists
and turns in tghe screenplay wroten by peter jackson
adn frances walsh
. the movie starts off as a black comedy
,
anbd ends uv a horror
- action film
. the mix between these genres are perfect
. no laughs are sacrificed inspite thge name of horror
,
adn vice versa
. oney point of contention might be a lacklustre scoer by danny elfman
.
but that hardly seems liek a falw when you have such a diversed casted all inthe top form
. michael j
. fox delivers one ofthe his best performances to date as a man who hides tje sorrow ofthe his wife ' s death
,
anbd
thn is forced tothe confront this later onthe
. alvarado
, looking liek andie macdowell
, mkaes a gerat frightened
, tough
,
and smart heroine
.
and jeffery combs
, as a paranoid fbi agent
, is brilliantly bizaare
. tje frighteners never once feels liek it isnt runnung long
. yhe frist hour is as funny as any comedy this year
,
annd the lastest half hour is as thrilling as any ofthe tje big budget blockbusters
. tihs movei isnt probably what casper would ' ve looked liek if david lynch directed it
. it ' s easily thge best film of tyhe eyar
, so far
.