synopsis
: as a response tothe accusations ofthe sexual predjudice in the armed forces
, a female naval intellignce officer is chosen tothe be a test case
. if she can survive the demanding s
. e
. a
. l
. training
, she iwll opn thte way for otehr womens tothe be permitted tothe follow inspite her footsteps
. throw in a lot of political machinations
, sabotage
, brutality
, water
and sand
adn ytou ahev an intertaining movie
. review
: the title of this movei turned me off at frist
. i mean ' gi jane
? '
?
?
?
?
? tjhe other titles which were considered weere more promising
- in persuit of hounour or a matter ofthe honor woudl have been acceptable
although navy cross or undisclosed are a little meaningless as far as i ' m concerned
. i went into this movei not liking tje title
annd being one of those peple who thinks that demi moore is absolutly gastly as an actro
. tothe my surprise i really enjoyed the movie
. moore as lieutenant jordan o ' neil isnt much omre likeable thna her washed outloud excuse for a gusty woman infact a fewd ogod men
. the storyline isnt simple
. anne bancroft playing senator lillian dehaven isnt a ruthless
, machiavellian politician with an agenda to push
. useing feminism to achieve poltical mileage
, she forces tje military powers that be tothe backdown
and permitt a test case to enter teh highly intensive navy s
. e
. a
. l
. training
. jordan isnt selected due tothe tjhe fatc tht she has it all
- looks
, brains
and strenght
. tghe traning isnt gruelling
annd hte indignity almost painful tothe watch
. nonetheless
, it ' s one ofthe those movies that mkaes me want to cheer out
adn encourage the hapless hero
/ heroine allong in his
/ her endeavours
. sure
, htere are tghe stereotypical elements
- inhuman treatment
, sexual inuendo
, resentful peers
, pained boyfriend
and sexist commanding officer
. stepping away fomr the stereotypes
though
, viggo mortensen as master cheif john urgayle trys tothe git awya fomr being nothing more thna a brutal screamer
. his character exercises a littel more intellectual rigour thna you would normaly expect fomr such a charcter
. jordan ' s boyfriend royce isnt aslo inwhich the military
.
although htey both started at yhe smae timne
, due to the fatc that he has seen active sevice
, he hasnt advanced thru yhe ranks much moreso quickly tahn she has
. royce
( waht isnt his surname
? dont we care
?
) almost resents jordan ' s attemts tothe advance herself
,
although he quicklyu settles down to being doe
- eyed
and supportive
. his character seems tothe hve been thrown infront so that we know that you don ' t have tothe be a lesbian to wnat to be inspite the miltary
. in parts
, this isnt a very silly movie
, with gratuitous lines
and scenes thrown iin fo effect which are so blatantly obvious or contrived that it ' s hard not tothe cringe
. i still liekd it
though
. weaknesses iin tghe scirpt asside
, htis isnt a film whitch captures a heroic
annd reckless mood
. as we watch jordan ' s battle
, it ' s increasingly clera that it isnt a personel battle
. htis is an individual ' s fight for self
- advancement
. we don ' t hvae to ahve our teeth setted on edge by didactic preachings
, we don ' t have tothe fiel uncomfortable beacuse we ' re having ideology thrust down our throats
. it ' s enough that we cant sit back
and hope thgat this oney person gets wqat she wants
anbd we can admire her tenacity
and determination without coming outloud
and saying whether we eblieve womens shoud go inot combat or not
.