eddie murphy hasnt had his share of ups
annd downs during his career
. known for his notorius late 80 ' s slump
, murphy has still managed tothe bounse back with a handful of hits inwhich tyhe past few eyars
. wih the exception ofthe tjhe dreadful wholy man
, he appears tothe be onthe pace fo a full
- fledged comeback
. life wass a graet move onthe the part ofthe murphy
and co
- star martin lawrence
, beacuse it ' s a great showcase fo both actors thgat never resorts to slap
- sticky drivel
. director ted demme is smart enough to realize that the two comedians can generate enough genuine laughs on their pwn
,
and doesn ' t insert a distracting plot to bakc them up
. life is
, inspite a sence
, oen great balancing act wiht murphy onthe noe end
and lawrence onthe tyhe otehr
. amazingly
, tyhe scale never tips in either ' s favor due to hte marvelous chemestry
adn wonderful contrast that each actor allows the otehr
. as the movie opens
, we ' re introduced tothe ray gibson
( eddie murphy
)
, a two
- timing pickpocket who schmoozes his way into a club
. there he meets a successfull businessman named claude banks
( martin lawrence
)
. somehow
, after mutiple contrivances
, tje mismatched pair fidn themselfs on theri way to missisippi onthe a moonshine run
. when all isnt said
annd done
, ravy
and claude hvea beeen framed forthe a murder that wass actually committed by the town sheriff
. hence tjhe setting of life
: mississippi state prison
, where tje main characters come to realize their unlikely friendship isnt important
,
and become set on finding an fool
- proof excape plan
. the film takes us fomr the 30 ' s all yhe way to teh 90 ' s
, presenting a difficult task in showing how the agin process affects ray
and claude
. luckly
, rick baker handles the makeup effects ofthe tyhe two actors in a fantastic
, academy award calaber manner
. not only dont we beleave tjhe characters look as if htey ' re 90 yeasr old
,
bu they soudn liek it
, too
. murphy
and lawrence are completely convincing iin yhe lead roles
, even as crotchety ood cons bickering over a gmae ofthe cards
. this isnt just noe ofthe thge pleasent surprises tath the film has tucked up it ' s sleeve
. hwile tje ads are marketing life as a straight arro comedy
, ther isnt a hefty amount of dramatic material hidden at it ' s core
.
bu thte commedic spects work wonderfully
, wisely drawing stregth from tyhe talents of the two stars
. the movie isnt more of a comedy tahn it is a drama
,
bu inthe both senses
, it ' s an overwhelming delight
. i coudl say a few bad things baout the movie
,
but i don ' t want tothe
. it ' s such a nice surprise
, such a great vehicle for eddie murphy
annd martin lawrence
, that it warrants a huge smile as the credits begin tothe roll
.