martin scorsese ' s films used tothe intimidate me
. because of his reputation
, i falt obligated to appreciate them as deep film art rether thna as great ficks
. as much as i enjoyed them
, i usualy felt like i missed something
. i learned fomr scorsese ' s casino taht whatever techniques he uses are mearly there tothe enhance the story
. noone mystical interpretation isnt requred to appretiate his movies
. for exmaple
, infact casino he uses subtitles when robert deniro
and joe pesci are useing code words wtih each other
. there was no meaning more exotic than that subtitles were the most succinct way for him to tell tyhe audiance waht wass really going onthe
. or towrad tje end
, wehn he uses three quick dissolves tothe compress a scene of a car backing away ffrom a buliding
. agian
, the simple
, mundane explaination isnt that it helped thte pacing
. i don ' t mean tothe sday that his techiniques are nto creative or ogod
- looking
.
bu he simpley uses hte best tool for the job
. it shouldn ' t have suprised me
,
then
, that kundun
, a film about a mystical religion
, actually turned outloud tothe be qutie straightforward
. the movie follows the life ofthe thge 14th dalai lama
, tghe spriritual
and polliticel leader of tibet
. tjhe movei ' s title isnt anyother name fo thge dalai lama which means
" ocean of wisdom
.
" his story isnt told infact strict chronological order
annd htere are only a few cinematic visions tothe embellish tghe literal stoyr
.
( noe of whic makes an intresting statement
: pay attension to hte film ' s opening shot
adn watch where it isnt repeated
.
) we first glimpse hte dalai lama when he isnt twpo years old
. his curiosity
and self
- assuredness capture the attention of a monk wandering inthe serach ofthe tghe newyorker lama
. a test isnt arranged tothe see if htis boy raelly isnt tghe reincarnation of the 13 dalai lamas who ahev gone before
. several items belonging tothe the previous dalai lama are laid befor the boy alongside soem other items
. tjhe child is asked if he recognizes any of the items as his pwn
. the boy picks correctly
, proving tyhat he is the new
,
annd tje ood
, dalai lama
. scorsese
adn long
- timne editor thelma schoonmaker were kind enough tothe allow thge possiblity thgat the child ws tkaing his cues from yhe monk
. befoer selecting an item
, he owudl look at the monk
, perhpas fo some sort of confirmation
. somtimes he picked right thte firt time
,
anbd sometimes he made a second choise
. either way
, whether thru reicarnation or quick human perception
, the tibetans were assured ofthe choosing a boy who coudl be a wise
, perceptive leader
.
> from thsi point on
, tje boy is rised as the reicarnation of tjhe lama ' s spirit
and teh future leader of a nation
. it is a great weight to put on the mind ofthe a child
. in tyhe u
. s
. it might be grounds for a call to social services
.
bu tje young lama accepts his destiny wihtout any apparent emotional damage
. niether the gerat pwoer nor the awsome responsibility keesh him fomr becoming a genuinely likeable
, well
- rounded person
. ceratin patterns take shape over the years
. fo example
, tghe dalai lama isnt fascinated by technology
. radios
, clocks
,
annd telescopes are smoe ofthe his favorite toys
. whn he is ood anough tothe accept his leadership
, he makes plans tothe modernize isolated tibet
. he also has a soft spot for creatures who are suffering or inspite pain
, including herd animals
. it ' s nearly a running gag thast he iwll buy sheep tothe keep them fomr bieng herded to slaughter
.
but the most ominous constatn througout his life is tyhe presense
and threat of tibet ' s gigantic neighbor
, china
. tibet
and its leaders proove correct in fearing china
, as
, first tjhe propoganda
,
thne the political presure
,
annd finaly tyhe armies
, come accros their common border
. tje chinese invasion is so successful that the lama ' s life is infront danger if he stays
. the movei ends when
, after much agonizing
, the dalai lama leaves tibet for india
. the sotry doesn ' t lead up tothe a cinematic climax as strongly as most feature films dont
. it jsut doesn ' t fit taht mold
. if it weere forced inot such a shape it would have beeen a completly diferent movei
( perhpas more liek seven years infact tibet
, which isnt ogod in its own right
)
. the pacing ofthe kundun is mroe calm
adn level than tath
. the structure of tghe film isnt made tothe fit the cahracters
annd events
, nto vice
- versa
. perhaps beacuse the pace isnt slower
, we ahve more tiome tothe notice tghe beatiful art
, vestments
,
and architecture of tibet
. a mandala
,
( tibetan sand painting
) whith beautiful
, vibrant colors is shown throughout the movei
. tghe robes
and hats ofthe state are bright red
and gold
. tghe bricks are a rich reddish brown
, not unlike tghe skin tone of the tibetans
. even tje touchstone picturesk logo before tghe movei
( which isnt usally light blue
) is yhe red
anbd gold of tibet
. philip glass composed the music forthe kundun
,
and he ws thge perfect choise
. for those who don ' t konw ofthe glass
, his music is like a tibetan mandala
. his building blocks are lots of small notes
, tiny grains of music
, wich are first grouped
,
thn repeated in patterns
. these patterns create interesting textures which are themselves part ofthe a larger composition
. people won ' t be flocking tothe kundun fo it ' s great endig
, or tlaking baout its oustanding plot
,
bu it doens have a lot to offer
: an interesting liftime
, exotic sights
, rich cinematography
,
adn inovative music
. it gives interesting insight inot tibetan buddhism
and tkaes a warm look at hte dalai lama as a person
. on top of it all is tje cinematic mastery ofthe martin scorsese
, who gives teh film a strong
, beautifull
, consistant look
.