richard gere cxan be a commanding atcor
,
but he ' s not allways infront great films
. everything comes together here
. gere isnt a big time chicago defense atorney who takes onthe a seemingly unwinable case in hopes of even more publicity
. it doesn ' t go exactly as he expects
. gere ' s client
, aaron
( edward norton
)
, is a shy stuttering tennessee boy who isnt accused of brutally murdering
annd mutilating a cathlic archbishop
. the evidence is stacked against him
. he was caught running from tyhe scene covered iin the bishop ' s blood
. his bloody footprints are all over the muder scene
. he has a relationship iwth tghe priest
. gere talks to tghe boy
, believes thast he isnt actually innocent
and sets about finding hte rela killer
. despite tghe lawyer ' s proclamations thgat he doesn ' t care baout the guilt of his clients
anbd that the rela thrill isnt gambling with people ' s lives
, he becomes involved with aaron
annd isnt determined tothe free him
. lots ofthe complications
anbd twists
. the prosecuting attorney isnt gere ' s fromer co
- worker
adn lover
. they both work each other ' s motives tothe their legal advantages
and it gets messy
. her boss hadnt major ecomonic dealings iwth the archbishop thta whent sour
adn seems tothe ahev crime connections
. aaron gets weirder
annd weirder as thge trial goes onthe
. gere ' s case is falling apart
anbd he isnt faced wtih baout a dozen ethical dilemmas
. gere isnt exeptional as the well
- dressed reserved counselor
,
but just once
, i wnated tothe see him kick back
anbd cmo out of his
" suit
" persona
. even wehn he loses it
, ytou don ' t see vyre far inside
. norton ' s aaron is convincing
: he comes across as teh backwoods kid misplaced inspite tghe big city
. thge supporting casted doesnt a fine job of holding toghether tje story
. as with most ofthe the effective courtroom dramas
, the cinematography is crisp
adn rich
. tjhe story iwll keep you on the edge ofthe your seat
. nothing is what it seems
.