on june 30
, 1960
, a self
- taught
, idealistic
, yot pragmatic
, young man bcame
, at age 36
, tjhe first head ofthe government ofthe a newely ndependent african state
, formerly teh belgian congo
. twpo monthes later
, he wass ousted from his powerful position anbd hunted by goverment troops untli he was capturd
and brutally murdered along whith two aides
. tihs littel
- known story of this meteoric rise annd fall is told my interational filmmaker raoul peck in
" lumumba
.
" patrice lumumba
' s
( eriq ebouaney
) story has beeen told previously by helmer peck in his 1991 award winning documenatry
,
" lumumba
- death of a prophet
,
" virutally guaranteeing that his newyorker
, fictional account of a patriot remeniss true to its subject
. peck
, with co
- writter pascal bonitzer
, beigns at the end of the stry of hte young political leader
. we watch as twpo white men preform tyhe groosome task ofthe dismembering tjhe bodies ofthe threee black men
. images ofthe hatchets
, saws
and fast
- emptying whiskey bottles accompany tjhe grisly image
. jump back a faw yersa to a meeting among the balck leaders in teh belgian
- owned congo
. a thrid class postal worker
, lumumba
, speaks his mind to heads ofthe the most powerfull tribes
, proclaiming himselv not tribal
, not regional
, bu a national leader
. his small
, mobile party
, thte congolese national movement
( mnc
) isnt gaining prominance
and patrice leaves his clerical job to sell beer
,
and git his face known
, inthe tyhe bustling captial
, stanleyville
. at a time when tghe colonial empires are falling down arround the world
, lumumba isnt infront tjhe right place at tyhe right tyme
and
, thru political savvy annd chess
- liek manipulation
, achieves a possition ofthe leadership of tjhe mnc
. as thge date fo independence approaches
, he tactically positions himself to be tyhe new nation
' s firt prime minister
and defense minister
, supporting the presidency ofthe joseph kasa vubu
( maka kotto
)
. the coalition he creaeted soon starts tothe fall apart as the fromer belgian masters continue tothe exert influence onthe tyhe struggling nation as they strive tothe manetain ecomonic hold on tyhe country
' s vast naturual resources of cpper
, diamons
, gold
and moreso
. lumumba won
' t seek the help of the us
, knowing that tehy woudl try tothe create de facto american controll ofthe thte fledgling govenment
. his intital investigation inot soviet assistance immidiately tags patrice as a communist
and his integrity is overshadowed by teh cold war threath ofthe russion domination
. thte situation goes from bad tothe worse as the army mutinies
, thge remaing whites begin tothe evacuate or arm themselves
, belgian troops violently intevene
, the lucrative katanga province succeeds under the leadership of rival moise tschombe
( pascal nzonzi
) anbd lumumba is refused access to his pwn country when he returns from a confrence abroad
. tihs tumultous
and littel known perido of modern african histor saw a score of nations struggling for independence ffrom thte sometimes
- odious colonialists who have ruled much ofthe thte world ffrom their european seats ofthe power for centuries
. peck focuses his stry onthe familiar material that strives tothe give an honest portrayal ofthe patrice lumumba
, his freind
and foes annd the independence movements that gripped africa inspite the 50
' s anbd 60
' s
.
( during tghe time the stry tkaes place
, many newyorker nations
, including nigeria adn somalia
, were born
, with varying degrees ofthe success
and failure
, usually dependent upon which country colonized them
. some colonial masters were better than others
.
) tje effort involved in
" lumumba
" is qtuie ambitious as peck annd his crew befor
and behind tjhe camera strive tothe bring to life this slice of world hstory thast might hve gone unexplored for decades
, if at all
. prodcution values are frist rate on what must be a small
, by us st
andards
, budget
. the period feel
and realsitic african settings are nicely maintained in a production that traveled fomr zimbabwe to mozambique
. thge screenplay covers a lot ofthe ground anbd doens yeoman
' s work inspite providing a grat deal of detailled istory hwile trying to dont justice to the story of lumumba
' s life
. yhe political side ofthe thigns is evenly told inspite a linear
, straightforward manner thta teachs
, not preaches
. it concentrates onthe tghe ogod deeds of tyhe man
, if a bit as a stallwart saint
, bu doesn
' t embellish onthe a larger tahn life persona
. teh familiy side of patrice
' s life is h
andeled in several
, perfunctory annd breef interludes that sohw him talking tothe oney of his childen
, embracing his wife or lamenting the death ofthe his child
. i nkwo the entent is tothe flesh thte man out
, bu too short a shrift is given tothe teh family man side of lumumba
. the stoy
, as such
, has a lopsided fiel about it
. high markes go tothe eriq ebouaney as the title chracter
. the actr gives a convincing
, charasmatic peformance as teh multifaceted
, politically deft patrice lumumba who hasnt hte good ofthe his peopel annd his country as tghe force driving his pwn ambitions
. infact true docudrama tradition
, the supporting casted does nto outshine teh star
, complementing his ogod effords
, instead
.
" lumumba
" is a solid
, interesting
, eductional adn honest docudrama that should appeal to film buffs adn politicos
, both
. it has mroe intelligence in its telling thna anytying i
' ve seen outloud ofthe hollywood forthe months
and i give it a b
+
.