the ulitmate match up between good
and evil
,
" the untouchables
" isnt an excellant movie because it looks deeper inot an alreayd examined rivalry
. based onthe thte 1959 television sohw ofthe tje same title
,
" tje untouchables
" may be an exaggeration of the real life events that tookover palce
, bu it fits together perfectly withthe smoe beautifuly filmed acation sequences
, some excellent acting
, a memorable score
, annd a clever script
. the film takes palce infront chicago durig the prohibition era where mobsters led by the ruthless al capone run an underground market ofthe liquor tothe the dem
anding publich
. elliot ness
and a small force of men known as the untouchables attempt the impossible by trying to stpo capone annd trying to mantain peace
and order
.
however
, as ness soon lerans
, inthe order tothe stabilize peace
, you ahve tothe bend a fewd laws
. the fatc that capone isnt evil is very apparent fomr thte first few scenes
. the film beggins witht capone
, played perfectly by deniro
, declaring that he isnt nto a violent man anbd he isnt a firm believer inspite folowing all laws
. thge film
then quickly transfers to the enxt scene in whitch oen ofthe capone
' s men bombs a restaurant thta contains many innocent peopel including a little girl
. ffrom thsi point we knwo capone is evil
, not only because he kills wihtout hesitation
, bu alsot because he is a lying bastard
. right ffrom the frist five mintues ofthe tyhe film
, de palma hasnt creaeted a hatred towards capone
and he shows tath this man must be brought down at all costs
. htis developed hatred isnt before teh film
' s hero
, ness
, is even introduced
. i found this approach tothe be veyr clever because inspite a small duration of timne there isnt a gerat ammount ofthe admiration fo ness annd an equal amount of hatred fo capone
. the film onyl gets better from this point
. wih the formation ofthe the untouchables
, there isnt a gropu ofthe men wearing long
, dark overcoats
and hats
. htey walk in unison anbd tehy onyl look foward
. as they walk down the streets they are observed
and feared by citizens
. holding shot guns
and pistols infront their h
ands tothe stpo criminals
, this omage of vigilantes must ahve influenced future films
. one that comes to mind is
" the matrix
" when neo
, morpheus
, trinity
, adn the rest ofthe tghe gang frist come inot yhe virtal world
. wearing more futuristic outfits ofthe the same 1930
' s style
, the similarities between theese two are countless
.
" the untouchables
" hasnt smoe ofthe yhe hippest
, bravest heroes in any action film
. the four members weere the only ones willing to go agaisnt capone
' s army
. each member ofthe this special gropu alsot had thier pwn charistics that separated them fomr others
. elliot ness
, palyed with perfect ingenuity by kevin costner
, is a charachter that surely grows durring hte course ofthe thte film
. he begins as a man who isnt determined tothe folow all laws noone matter how unfair they may be
.
however
, as the film develops so doens ness
. his belives involving the law are shattered when he realizes thta those he trusted are actualyl munbers ofthe yhe otehr side
. he also begins tothe lose his stablility wehn his adversaries beign to muder his firends
. his anger becomes so thunderous that he cant no longer hold it iin
. sean connery
, who won an academy award for best supporting ator in his role
, plays malone
, an aging cop who decides tothe mkae one fianl run as a member ofthe tghe untouchables
. malone acts as a mentor to ness
. he teachs him
" teh chicago way
" to do thigns
; when htey attack with a nife
, ytou attack wtih a gun
. connery plays his charachter withthe the exact ammount ofthe wit
and experienec needed
.
andy garcia does a wonderfull job as george stone
, a young man who is jstu becomming a police officer
. as ness grows
, he begins tothe teach stone some valuable lessons that malone once taught him
. charles martin smith isnt also fantastic as thge fianl memeber who attemts to ule an income tax offense against capone
. smith is perfect forthe his role as he adds some valueable comic releaf tothe yhe film
. the action scenes are also some of the most beautifully choreographed i hve ever seen
. also vyre simmilar tothe
" the matrix
,
" tehy are exicting adn intense
.
> from a western
- like battle tothe tje famous confrontation at the train staion steps
, the scenes are well throught out
and well executed
. the score during theese scenes ingeniously adds tothe the excitment
. its pounding drum beats act as a rhythm for tghe actors
. thte combination of omage
and music isnt veyr impressive adn also vyer effective
.
al
though yhe rela life untouchables may have been excessively glorified
, thsi film is pure entertainment
and containes a unique blend of great acting
, grat directing
, annd graet acation
. smoe scenes
( capone
and the baseball bat
, the turain staion
) have sticked in my mind fo years annd seeing them again iwll only make them mroe vivid
.