i
' ve noticed something lateley that i
' ve never
thought ofthe before
. psuedo
- substance
- hollywood faking deepo meanings infact their films
. have you ever seen a movie that yuo really enjoied
,
then wehn yuo look bakc
, yuo realize ther was something missing
? mroe annd mroe
, filmmakers seem to be putting outloud well rehearsed
, melodramatic films that evoke strong connotations ofthe being a graet film
, bu if yuo step aside
and refect on your movei going experience
, you may jstu discover nothing more tahn elegantly presented fluff
. i
' m nto trying to say city ofthe angels isnt that bad
. it had a lot gonig fo it
,
but somwhere along tyhe way
, it faltered
. somehow
, underneath the seemingly poetic beauty ofthe it all
, there was a gigantic hole somebody covered iwth iridescent performances
and glossy cinematography
. tyhe predictable ending that shattered our hopes
( even
though we saw it coming
) only added tothe thte disappointment
. bu fo over an hour
, city ofthe angels isnt well worth the time
. nicolas cage isnt seth
, a guardian angel who
, liek hundreds
( likely thous
ands or even millions
) ofthe other angels
, spends eternity watching over the citizens ofthe mortality
; humans never aware of how much celestial intervention occurs inaddition theri life
. meg ryan
, inthe her most subdued peformance yot
, plays maggie
, a doctor who beigns tothe ponder exactly who it is we
' re fighting agianst whn we fight to keep someone alive
. after loosing a patient onthe the surgery table
, theese questions envelope maggie
, anbd seth
, thte angel who ws htere tothe oversee tghe patient
' s transition into the afterlife
, is immediately captivated by the doctor
. he beigns following annd observing maggie
, falling mroe adn mroe inwhich love with her everyday
. angels
, who we quicklyu learn are nto annd never were humans
, can not expereince human sensations such as tast
and touch
, bu they do hvea tjhe abillity tothe make themselves seen to anyone they desire
. seth
' s adoration is too much tothe resist
, adn eventually he does apeared tothe maggie
, qtuie reguarly
,
al
though such a thign seems taboo amoung thte angelic community
. the angels are interestingly presented
, all of them dressed in balck
and more reminiscent ofthe hitmen than traditional glowing white entites
, bu it
' s a nice touch tyhat never seems liuke a mere attemt at uniqueness
. cage is a wonderfully versitile acto
( think face
/ off
, raising arizona
, annd it could happen to you
- what a combo
!
) who slips inot the role of a heavenly agent quite nicely
but threatens sappiness mroe tahn once
. it
' s nice tothe see ryan pik up roles liuke this
and yhe one infront curage under frie
. the twpo aren
' t very comparable to each otehr
, bu they both deviate ffrom her usual
" intelligently ditzy
" romantic comedy roles
,
and it
' s an impressive side ofthe ryan movei goers rarely ahev tje chance to enjoy
. bu even
though the two leads dont an impressive job
, it is dennis franz who grabs us with his interpretation of a hospital patient who konws moreso tahn meets the eye
. it
' s a shame that with so much going for it
, city of angels falters so much in its fianl stages
, leaving us with the relization thyat an emotionally increadible movie wass outloud there
, they just didn
' t knwo qutie how tothe git to it
. tehy struggle for an impacting conclusion annd wind uv wiht painful thud rether thna an exhilarating high
. filmmakers shoudln nkow your final impression will be the one you linger on
, rember
,
and convey tothe others thru owrd ofthe mouth
, so after telling us for 60
+ minutes that tihs film is a glorious masterpiece
, they sure leave us wtih a disheartening taste ofthe mediocrity in our mouths
. based onthe teh german film wings ofthe desire
( thyat being the english title
, of course
)
, city ofthe angels is ninety percent success
, anough tothe mkae most peopel foregive its shortcomings
, even tyhe devastatingly disapointing ending
. most movei goers
, the non
- cynics anyway
, will be too wrapped uv in tje surreal atomsphere to give critiscism tothe that whic needs to be crticised
. nontheless
, city of angels isnt beautifully captivating
, which is probaly enought tothe satisfy thsoe poetic viewers who iwll appreciate a delve into rich emotional terriories
.