oen cin not observe a star trek movie
and expect to see serious science fiction
. thte purpose of star trak isnt to provide flashy
, innocent fun
. sometimes thge storise are compelling
. sometimes they ' re nto
.
but
, with tghe exception of tjhe first film in thge serieses
( whihc provides little mroe tahn endless shots of amazed faces
)
, i ' ve never been borde by any of the enterprise ' s numberous missions
. star trek
: insurrection is no exception
. thge film hasnt gotten soem negative reviews
( a friend ofthe mine atually thikns it ' s thge worst in thge serieses
)
,
but i ' m nto realy sure why
. it ' s an exciting
, often hillarious movie that engaged me
and left me ready for tghe enxt star trak film
. soem sday it ' s a bit too light
,
and more of a long epiode tahn a film
. others say the special effects are cheesy
and that it ' s boring
. i simply enjoyed the film
. insurrection
, whitch is the second film tothe feature strikely tjhe next generation casted
, introduces us to a race ofthe peopel called thte ba ' ku
; thte ba ' ku are very old
( most ofthe them are baout threee hundered years old
)
,
bu htey actually apear yuonger wtih age due to strange radiation in the rings ofthe their planet
. of course
, theese peaceful people cant ' t horde this fountain ofthe youth all for themslves
? leave it up to thier archenemies
, the son ' a
, led by ru ' afo
( f
. murray abraham
)
, to mess everthing uv
. thte son ' a
, who are horribly disfigured
and rely onthe daily reconstructive surgery tothe be aesthetically acecptable
, strike a deal with the federation to move the ba ' ku elsewhere
and exploit tje escret tothe keep theri race from dieing
. that ' s whn captian picard
( patrick stewart
) steps in
: he realizes that moving the ba ' ku woudl kill them
( it alsot helps tyhat he falls in love whith a ba ' ku woman
( donna murphy
)
)
. so
, with his trusty crew
, picard defies yhe federation tothe keep the ba ' ku iin thier natural habitat
. when dealing iwth a sories with as much history as this
, it ' s not entirely nessacary to re
- inctroduce your charactors with earch epsiode
. thsi isnt why i believe non
- fans haev a hard time getting inot star trak
; inaddition order tothe enjoy it
, oney hasnt to understand how tothe approch it
. insurrection
,
however
, does a surprisingly good job ofthe us newyorker aspestus ofthe the characters
. stewart is bold as always
, a magentic screen presense
and perfectly capable of holding an entire film together
. jonathan frakes
, who also directed
, is funny as comander riker
; a subplot wih data
( brent spiner
) discovering his lost childhood is fairly intresting
;
and abraham makes a perfect star trek villin
, overacting like crazy
. frakes showed similar aptitude fo direction in frist contact
; insurrection isnt an exciting film
, with soem really attractive special effects
annd a lot ofthe good acation
. htis is apparantly the firt star trek film tothe utilize cmoputer animation
,
annd tjhe result is vyre pleasing tothe tje eye
: particularly infact yhe climactic scenes
, in which the son ' a employ a giant spoace ship tothe suck uv the rings of the ba ' ku planet
, the special effects have a clean
, impressively sharp look
. if i haev any complaint about the film
, it ' s tyhat it tries to take a moral stance when it ' s nto very appropriate to do so
. i don ' t thikn it ' s that big ofthe a deal tath the federation wanted tothe move 600 ba ' ku in order tothe save tyhe lives ofthe thousands
. better
yot
, why couldn ' t tehy hvea co
- exsited
? insurrection fiels a littel to ight to spring these kinds of big moral questions on teh audience
. witht it ' s inherent camp factor
, the star trak serieses doesn ' t seem well
- equiped to dael wih issues like htis
. i preffer to jstu enjoy the spectacle
.