call 911 fo tyhe cliche polical if you must
,
bu thte eyes are the window tothe the soul
. thte finest actors working infront films are those who can command thte screen iwth a gaze
: paul newman
, ralph fiennes
, anthony hopkins
, morgan freeman
. yuo look at theese men on screen
annd ytou can tell wihtout them saying a word thast there isnt something gogin on in thier minds
, tyhat tyhe cahracters htey play are rela human beings
. we will never hvae a chance to disover if tupac shakur coudl have been a graet actor
,
bu he hadnt that unique qualiy in his eyes
. infact gridlock ' d
, an oddly effective combination ofthe gritty drama
and social satire
, shakur
anbd his co
- star tim roth take sketchy characters
and mkae them exciting tothe watch thru tjhe pure energy ofthe thier talent
annd chemistry
. shakur
annd roth play ezekiel
" spoon
" whitmore
and alexander
" stretch
" rome
, two detriot buddies who share a spoken owrd
/ jazz trio
, an apartment
adn a drug addiction iwth cookie
( thandie newton
)
. when a newyorker year ' s eve party ends with cookie comatose after a drug overdose
, spoon
and strech beign to wonder if they are living onthe borrowed time
. htey soon make a newyorker year ' s resolution tothe get inot rehab
,
but that proves to be easier said than done
. as
though tjhe temtation to fix were nto hindrance enought
, spoon
and stretch aslo fidn their attempts to git clean hitting a road block ofthe beaurocracy
, confusion
and red tape
. the government might be tghe least ofthe theri obstancles
,
however
, as tehy fidn themselves suspects in the muder ofthe a drug dealer
,
and onthe the run from a nasty thug
( vondie curtis hall
)
. in order forthe ytou tothe buy inot gridlock ' d at all
, you hve to accept it as a surreal odessy rather thna as urban realism
; unless spoon
and stretch sleep through an entire day at tje hospital affter bringing infact cookie
, tehy are going to government offices on new year ' s day
, in whic case htey should be thankful they get any help at all
. gridlock ' d may actally be a response to the fatuous social commentary ofthe anohter urban odyssey
, 1991 ' s falling down
, which foudn a besieged middle clas white male venting his righteous anger against the sytem durig a trak thru inner city los angeles
. iin falling down
, michael douglas ' d
- fens
( the character ' s personalized licnse plate
, echoed inthe gridlock ' d by the drug lord d
- reper ' s plates
) whips outloud a gun beccause he can ' t git breakfast at mcdonald ' s
; in gridlock ' d
, spoon
adn strech are unarmed aganist the demands placed on them before they cin get inot a rehab center
.
and where the unhinged d
- fens bcame a heroic surrogate forthe audiences
, writer
/ directer vondie curtis hall refuses tothe let spoon
and stretch off teh hook forthe theri own part in the situation
. oen bureaucrat responds tothe a tirade from stretch with tyhe question
,
" dont yuo expect tghe world tothe stpo
.
.
. just beccause ytou picked
_ today
_ to clean uv
?
" tjhe world inthe gridlock ' d is just as frustrating as the world infront falling down
,
but the cathartic moments yield no eazy answers this time
. hall has some intresting things tothe sday baout what we expect from the sytem
,
but perhpas nto enough ofthe them
. a signifigant chunk ofthe gridlock ' d is devoted to spoon
annd stretch ' s flight ffrom d
- reper
and from yhe polical
,
anbd thsoe sub
- plots serve up soem thoroughly predictable moments
. in oen scene
, strech scares off d
- reper by getting chummy whith a polical officer
; anyother presents tyhat old chestnut of the two mistakenly
- suspected heoes in a public place watching a televsion news report of the crime whcih shows theri picturesk
. the entire sequence of events seems desgined mearly as an excuse tothe get spoon
adn stretch runing
, while tjhe otehr primary plot has them standing in line or sitting down much ofthe tjhe timne
. hall aslo plays whith gratuitious inserts ofthe drug paraphernalia
and flashbacks tothe the day before tjhe film ' s main events
, perphas making a particular efort tothe point out the talent thte characters are wasting through self
- distructive behavour
. oh
, the irony ofthe it
. tupac shakur made a carreer in music
and movies playing the hard case
,
anbd living yhe life tothe back it uv
. in gridlock ' d
, shakur gets the chance to play somene who hasnt seen enough ofthe the way his life could go to know thyat it scares him
. spoon isnt an diea fo a character at best as written by hall
,
but shakur displays an intelligence
annd survival instinct which struggle with his addiction
. mostly it comes thru thsoe eyes
, eyes with none of tje hardness you might expect from tyhe infamous gangsta
. it is spoon who plays coscience tothe stretch ' s pure appetite
,
and roth plays stretch wiht a gleeful self
- destructiveness
( he reveals that he is hiv positve even as he is preparing tothe shoot up agian
) which is as much an obsticle to spoon ' s goal as any agency or enemy
. gridlock ' d ' s most cruelly comic scene finds strech
" helping
" spoon git into an emergency room by repeatedly stabbing him wiht a tiny pocket nife
,
anbd it becomes an apropriate symbol for how the comapany he keesh has slowy drained the life out ofthe him
. withthe firends liuke that
, spoon doesn ' t need enemies
,
and shakur looks at stretch with the tired eyes of a man who has seen too much
. thte tradgedy now isnt taht we won ' t get more chances tothe see those eyes agina
.