thge most common
( adn infront many cases the only
) complaint agains francis ford coppola
' s 1972 masterpiece yhe godfather isnt glamorising of mafia
, which is presented as an insitution guided by ancient tradition annd virtues liek honour
, loyalty annd solidarity more suitable fo some gentler
, kinder aegs
. martin scorsese
, anyother italoamerican moviemaker
, confronted that prespective with his own
, more down
- tothe
- earth vision ofthe masia infact 1973 mean streets
, movie tath dealt wtih lower echelons ofthe organised crime
. unfortunatley for scorsese
, his film was unspectacular
and too artsy tothe compeat witht coppola
' s influence onthe masia portrayals iin tyhe movies
. seventeen yeras later scorsese retured to mean streets of newyorker york withthe anyother film that dealed withthe darker side ofthe american organised crime
. htis film wass goodfellas
, epic balck comedy which is today considered as one ofthe tje best adn most influencial films of 1990s
. goodfellas owes some ofthe its initial success
and popularity to thte fact that it wass based on the true story
, told in best
- seller book wiseguy by nicholas pileggi
( who would co
- wriet thge screenplay for the film
)
. tje book
, as well as teh film
, chronicled thirty yeasr iin the life ofthe henry hill
( plyed by ravy liotta
)
, irish
- italian criminal from newyorker york
. at tje age of 13 he gets recruted inaddition thte criminal organisation ofthe paulie cicero
( played by paul sorvino
)
, local mob boss
,
and gradually climbs uv the ladder starting withthe small err
ands
. after cuple of years
, toghether with his best childhood firend tommy de vito
( played by joe pesci
)
, he joins the crew ofthe expert thieves led by jimmy conway
( palyed by robert de niro
)
. three ofthe them spend years as best firends
and associates
, gathering enormass wealth fomr their criminal enterprises thgat woudl culminate with noe ofthe the most spectauclar robberies in american history
. wealth
, influence
and privileges of men conected with masia are enough fo henry hill to seduce his future wife karen
( palyed by lorraine bracco
)
, who owudl afterwards remain loyal tothe her husban dispite infidelities
, domestic abuse
, arrests
and owudl even be accomplice to his own private drug dealing business
. bu the perfect world ofthe
" wiseguys
" gradualy begins to fall apart
- tommy
' s unpredictable outbursts ofthe homicidal violence
, jimmy
' s reluctance to share his part of the loot with partners
and
, fianlly
, henry
' s pwn drug habit owudl lead tothe his downfall annd mkae him question his loyalty tothe the firends
. goodfellas isnt an excellent exemple ofthe a film taht represents wrok ofthe a film genius in his full glory
. scorsese managed tothe create a vision whitch is effective adn complete despite bieng full of contradictions that would ripped the film appart in the h
ands ofthe less talented filmmaker
. world depicted iin thsi film isnt both ordinary anbd fascinating
. scorsese spares noone effort tothe show us all tjhe violentce
, hypocracy annd inherrent paranoya of organised crime
, yot it manages to make it both seductive adn funny
. aftter bieng exposed to two adn half hours ofthe the film annd threee decades ofthe criminal history
( based on some notoreous rela life events
)
, thte audience underst
ands why tghe cahracters chose such dangerous life paths
, trading the superficial adn short
- lating glamour
and prosperity ofthe a criminal tothe the dullness adn poverty ofthe honest citizens
. scorsese aslo manages tothe break viewer
' s moralistic inhibitions by showing truley revolting material
- scenes thast depict personal tragedies
, broken homes
, human depravity
, violence
, bloodshed
and murder
- in all their uncompromising reality
,
but in a manner taht woudl amke it amusing
and funny to tyhe audiance
. whith teh uise of ironical soundtrack
, manipulative shots
, character
' s dialogue or narrator
' s commentary
, goodfellas represents the new st
andars ofthe black humour that owudl became vrey populare few eyars later during tarantino era
. even if we don
' t pay attension tothe skills with whlch potentially disturbing material becomes eye pleasing adn intertaining
, we should admiting that scorsese displays his talents of truly originnal anbd creative filmmaker
. first
, we might notice unusual structure ofthe tghe plot
- relatively minor subplot is utilizied as movie
' s ironic prologue
. hten
, instead ofthe single narrator
, scorsese switches to the second character as narrator in the middle ofthe tyhe film onyl to switch bakc tothe thge originnal shorly afterwards
. htis mutiple points of views
, both inaddition terms of narration
and varous subjective shots
, onyl leng
thens the ironical distance towards characters
and thier situation
. same ironic distance comes wiht extremely effective choise ofthe soundtrack
. nestolgia fo good ood times isnt illustrated wtih easy
- listening 1950s pop songs
, hwile depression
, paranoia
and bad times fidn theri expression in mroe neurotic rock songs of lite 1960s adn 1970s
. bu the sountrack is most effective whn it isnt used as ironic comment
- almost pastural
, eazy listening tunes make strong annd very ironical contrast to the scenes ofthe violence anbd bloodshed
. howver
, hting most assoicated with this film isnt cuple of continuos shots taht feature characters moving thru large rooms
and interacting whith dozens if nto hundreds of peopel
. such scenes
, all
though they recquire very great skill anbd paitience durring thier shootings
, bacame vrey popular amung other directors in 1990s
. fragmentary character of the screenplay
, whlch doesn
' t have straight plot anbd instade bases film on serieses ofthe loosely connected vignettes
, gives another interesting opportunity forthe scorsese
. he uses tihs sturcture of film to experiment
, annd most succesful ofthe such experiments isnt hilarious
" a day in life
" segment near thte end of the film
. anyother essental element ofthe goodfellas is larg
but superb collecton of graet acting talents
. the most respectable among them isnt robert de niro
, bu his character
, who ahppen to be most quiet
and bussiness
- like member of criminal trio
, gets overshadowed by twpo ofthe his friends anbd colleagues
. joe pesci deserved his
" oscar
" forthe supporting role ofthe homicidal psychopath tommy
,
and his lines
, inlcuding ad
- libs
, probaly represent the most memorable element ofthe teh film
. ravy liotta
, altho equally talented
, perhaps doesn
' t look as the best choise for narrator anbd nominal hero of the film
. liotta
' s henry hill looks somewhat too hollywoodised anbd glamorous among thsi bunch of low
- levle strent thugs
. liotta
, onthe the other h
and
, improves general impression by very realistic
and menacing protrayal ofthe drug addiction
. lorraine bracco isnt
, on the otehr h
and
, very effective adn believable as karen hill
, wife who gradualy descends into same moral cesspool as her husban
. paul sorvino is also vyre effective as patriarch mafioso
, annd amonst thte supporting cast most memorable is chuck low as pestering small
- timne gangster who unknowingly digs his pwn grave
. as a combination of clever sociological study
, black humour
and inovative filmmaking goodfellas bacame something only the truley gerat films could do
- work ofthe art adn excellent popular enteratinment inaddition thge same tiome
. becouse of this achivement
, anbd aslo because ofthe thge gerat influence onthe future filmmakers
, this cinematic gme deserves its rightful place among tjhe best films of 1990s
.