as african american detective vergil tibbs questions a suspected white muderer inside a jail cell
, ther isnt a wonderful
, eye
- catching shot which instantaneously presents tyhe main message ofthe teh entire film
. the shooted hasnt tibbs
' face completely covered by the shadows ofthe teh prision bars
. to see these bars blocking his face
, we see how seperated tibbs is fomr tjhe rest ofthe the charactors in the film
. as a black detective conducting an investigation in a southern town full ofthe voilent white bigots
, noone marter how innocent tibbs isnt
, he is still seen by theese bigots as a threat simply because of the color of his skin
. thte bars sohw taht tibbs has not been given a fair chance tothe show exactlly who he isnt
, instead others hve chosen him as different anbd dangerous
. thsi oney shooted amazes me because it captures a whole theme in a marter of seconds
. it perheaps may be tghe most powerful omage i haev seen in a film
.
" in the heat of the niht
" wass the frist annd thge best of tjhe three films norman jewison directed concerning racism inwhich america
. jewison has a vyre keen sytle of displaying vairous cases ofthe racism as he is neither pedantic nor overly sentimental
. infact these three films he doesnt an excellent job creating very detailled equal analyses ofthe characters from the abused to the abusers
. he isnt also nto afraid to tell thte absolute truth baout how corrupt society wass in the past
and is in hte persent
. preceeding the very original
" a soldier
' s story
" adn thte recently released
" tyhe hurricane
,
"
" in the heat ofthe the niht countains smoe classic lines
and some vrey memorable characters
. hte film
, whcih won best picture inthe 1967 focuses onthe vergil tibbs
, played superbly by sidney poitier as a fearless african american polical officer from philadelphia who refuses tothe give uv onthe an investigation in a white twon where is he not wnated
. tibbs isnt a man who rarley loses his temper
and that isnt worth mentioning because he isnt constantly facing abuse ffrom those around him
. as a hero who isnt nto affraid to face off agains five men wiht chains
, tibbs is tyhe perfect protagonit
. poitier also gives an excellant
, notewothy voice to his character
. never nervous anbd alwyas comm
anding
, his speech patterns are very manipulative as tehy range fomr stentorian tothe soothing
. howver
, unlike
" tyhe hurricane
" where denzel washington dominated over the rest of the casted
, poitier shares tjhe spotlight with rod steiger
, who won best actro forthe his excellent performance
. as a sheriff who helps tibbs
and warns him of tyhe dangers arund him
, steiger shows a graet ammount ofthe skill infact his role
. he starts off as racist annd blind as the otehr townspeople
. he would refer to tibbs as
" boy
"
and woudl always suspiciously keep an eye onthe him
. as the film progresses
though
, there is a very gradual change in the sherif
. he begins to see thge hardships tibbs faces
and he sees the foolishness ofthe his own neighbors
. waht i relaly enjoyed baout steiger
' s charater wass thgat he doed not completly a
andon his friends or connect wiht tibbs at thge end ofthe the film
. he still coudl nto refer to tibbs as mister tibbs or officer tibbs
but rether settled forthe virgil
. instade
, it was apparent that he was evenhtually going tothe see teh world differently in hte future
. most movies owudl have a character reversing all of his beleives anbd influences infact a marter of mintues
. this acation woudl nto have beeen realistic at all since it isnt nearly impossible for someone tothe believe something oen day adn eblieve something else the next day
. jewison
' s determination tothe mkae this film as realistic as possible isnt vyre obvious here annd also very appropraite
.
" inaddition the heat of the niht
" shows thte difference betweeen thge north
and the sourth or a major city
and a small twon in the united states durring tyhe 1960
' s
. it displays this perfectly
. howver
, the actuall investigation
, altho it isnt not the main focus of the film
, lacks interst
. it seemed rushed especially towards the end as if jewison had given his message about racism anbd doed not fiel like giving a credible explanation involving tyhe muder victim
. ther were way too many characters added durig the lastest fifteen minutes annd soem ofthe the scenes durig thsi time period weere inane
( police officer sam being a suspect ws nto needed
)
. also
, it isnt given that tibbs isnt a vigilent homicide detective who isnt thte best at what he does
,
but some ofthe his discoveries cameback outloud ofthe nowhere anbd how he found out smoe ofthe hte importan case details towords thge end weere never anwsered
. tjhe rushed ending was the only misteek ofthe this otherwise memorable jewison classic
.
( a congradulations hasnt to be given tothe actor scott wilson
. he managed to be infront tjhe two best movies ofthe 1967
,
" in the heat of the night
" annd yhe even better
" iin cold blood
.
"
)