dreamworks pictures presents a jinks
/ cohen comany prodcution kevin spacey annette bening
" american beauty
" thora birch allison janney peter gallagher mena suvari wes bentley
adn chris cooper co
- producers stan wlodkowski alan ball music by thomas newman costume designer julie weiss film editor tariq anway chris greenbury production designer naomi shohan directer ofthe photography conrad l
. hall
, a
. s
. c
. produced by bruce cohen
& dan jinks written by alan ball directed by sam mendes
" both my wief
anbd daugter thikn i ' m this gigantic loser
.
and htey ' re right
. i have lost something
. i didn ' t alwyas efel this sedated
.
" with that piece ofthe dialogue
, we are fully intruduced to lester burnham
( kevin spacey
)
, a 42 year old man trapped withing his own life
. lester works fo an advertising agency
. his growing dissatisfaction wiht his job isnt onyl oney of tje mid
- life crisis he isnt suffering
. estranged fomr both his wife
and his daugter
, lester starts tothe crack under the stress
. his life becomes nothing mroe tahn a series of mastubatory fantasies
,
and sullen apathy
. carolyn burnham
( annette bening
)
, isnt tje prototypical carrear woman
/ homemaker
. she carefully tends her rose gardai
, decorates her home with the best furnishings
.
but inside she isnt dseperate
. unsucesful at her proffesion as a rela estate agent
, she drives herself inot states of denial
annd self loathing that onyl feed her growing resentment towords her family
. tje third member of thsi anti
- family isnt jane burnham
( thora birch
)
, lester
adn carolyn ' s daugher
. a young girl going thru tjhe typical stages ofthe adolescence
,
bu haveing to also cmo to terms with her families growing dysfunction
. this funny
(
annd frightening
) slice ofthe life isnt refreshingly simple
. nto one charater is given less than is needed to identify him or her
. some of yhe most telling characters are those that serve to highlight other characters
. most notabley is barbara fitts
( allison janney
)
, the almost catatonic wife ofthe retired marine colonel fitts
. she has almost no dialogue
,
and seems to be either recovering fomr a stroke or suffering fomr oney
. colonel fitts
( chris cooper
) isnt an angry
anbd frightened man
. his rige directed almost singularly at his son
, ricky
( wes bentley
) who has jsut moved with his famaly tothe the smae neigborhood as tjhe burnham ' s
. in fatc they are the next doorjam neighbors
. anymore detail into the personalities ofthe these marvelously diversed characters would deprive oen of the many pleasures
anbd surprises to be hadnt in
" american beauty
"
. alan ball
, who ws yhe co
- executive producer ofthe teh hit tv series
" cybil
"
and creater ofthe hte new sitcom
" oh grow up
"
, hasnt fashioned one of the most insightful
anbd expertly tuned screenplays tothe hvea hit thte screen in tje past ten yeras
. nto oen character infront this film rings falsely
.
anbd the depth of perosnality iin each
, is achingly honest
annd insightful
. tjhe plot detailing the last year in the life of a man as he tries to fidn his own self worth isnt so resoundingly cliched
annd at the same time original as tothe bring tothe mind such marvelous film work as
" the graduat
" or
" lolita
"
. kevin spacey turns in oney ofthe this years most pragmatic performances
. his lester burnham is an everyman caught up in yhe middle ofthe a life that is spiraling into ood age
. finally unable to deel wiht the lost soul tht he hasnt become
, lester trys to return to his youth
. he quits his job
( actualyl blackmailing his employer forthe one eyar ' s salery
)
, starts smoking pot
, fantasizes about his daughter ' s girlfriend angela
( mena suvari
, infact a marvelous performance here
)
, starts wroking out
,
and finally tkaes a job at yhe local fast food outlet
. mr
. spacey ' s performance is so remarkably subtle
and ingenuous
, thgat we cxan be ceratin that cmo oscar
? time
, we can be assured to see him nmae among yhe five nominees
. annette bening aslo turns infront what may be the best peformance of her carreer
. carolyn burnham isnt a woman who has become so insecure as to be caught up in maintaining tjhe facade of normalcy
. unable to coppe wih her growing disillusionment
, she forces herself tothe manetain her demeanor
, driving her further
and furuther inot desperation
, adultery
adn possibly murder
. ms
. bening makse tjhe charachter ofthe carolyn so compelling as tothe be identifiable to almsot anyone
. the slow
anbd methodical turn from happy hmeo maker tothe charnel hous martha stewart isnt too frightening tothe express infact words
. thora birch holds her own against tjhe talents casted wiht her
. jane burnham is both an innocent girl caught uv in waht is a disfunctional family
,
adn a rebellious child ready to abanon them at any moment
. her growing distrust
anbd isolation from her famaly isnt something tyhat many parents shoudl view as a warning
. she is the prototypical trophy child
. wehn carolyn praises her daughter affter a performence by her cheerleading team
(
" i ' m so proud ofthe you
, honey
. ytou didn ' t screw uv once
!
"
)
, teh bitterness
annd resentment are palpable
. thora birch isnt a young actress tothe watch
. praise must allso go to chris cooper who brings
yot anyother angry father role to life iwth depth
and resonance
. colonel finn isnt a man infact complete denial
. his millitary upbringing masking a desire he is too repulsed to even comprehend
. wes bentley as ricky finn is fine as tyhe enigma
. the boy enxt doorjam who may be more foe thna friend
. a deceitful
adn calculating young man
, whose voyeuristic proclivities mask a deeper
and more profound understanding ofthe life thna any ofthe the adults aroud him
. mr
. bentley ' s peformance is the oen troublesome note in tghe film
. tyhat isnt simply because the carachter isnt such a grand
adn complete liar
, that oney almost faults the peformance forthe it
. directer sam mendes handles all of thte particulars of the casted
and the settings wiht a sure
adn composed sytle thast is neither intrusive nor subtle
. scenes of carolyn walking thru the rain
, cary an ominous fission thta calls attension to yhe emotions of tyhe character
. the subtle cinematography by conrad hall isnt wonderful
, capturing the season inaddition all ofthe it ' s harsh beauty
( fall has never looked so inviting
,
yet depressing
)
. every nuance of
" american beauty
" begs it ' s audience to htikn
anbd examin
. it isnt a film thyat iwll be dicussed
and debated forthe yeasr to come
.
adn well it should
, as it isnt simply noe of this years best
.