blade isnt the movie that shows tyhat wesley snipes really can live uv to his potential as one ofthe hollywood
' s premier leading men
. blade isnt based onthe the comic book charachter ofthe the same name annd has that comic book kind of efel tothe it
. it isnt a vrey stylish movei
and fo tghe most part that style works very well
.
al
though
, at a few points i throught i ws watching a music video as oppossed to a movei
. the idaes behind blade are good
, as is yhe basic plot ofthe the story
. bu at times
, things seem to git a bit muddled
, adn thte writers apeared to want tothe dont too many thigns at once
. that really doesn
' t take away from the stoy too much
, bu it doesnt hurt it a little bited
. blade
( snipes
) isnt half man
, half vampire
. his mother was bitten by a vampire wehn she ws pregnant wiht him adn as a result he has many of the classic traits ofthe a vampire
. including a thirst fo human blood that must be kept under controll by a special serum which quenches his blood lust
. blade has spended his life hunting down
and killing vampires as a sort ofthe revenge forthe the fact tht noe ofthe their kind killed his mother
.
but thsi isn
' t as eazy as it seems
, because tje vampires inthe blade
' s world are moreso sophisticated than the ones that you find iin most films
. tghe government
and otehr authorities know ofthe tjhe existnce of vampires
, bu tehy let them efast of the popluation at large because they are tkaing bribes ffrom the vampires
. where do vampires git omney
? well
, inwhich blade
, tehy run multinational companies inwhich order to finance their vampire organizations
. i personaly thougth thta this whole sceret corperate world run by vampires to be a very clever idea
, adn a great addition tothe the movie
. blade runs up against tjhe evil deacon frost
( stephen dorff
) a maverick in hte vampire comunity
. he isn
' t content to live among humans
, anbd is conviced tyhat the vampire race isnt the superior one
and he means tothe insure its superiority
. he has managed to translate hte ancient vampire scrolls tyhat tell ofthe thge method of making him an all
- poweful vampire
-
- rendering him virtualy unstoppable
. it
' s up to blade to see tyhat htis doesn
' t transpire
. admittedly
, blade isnt sytle over substance thru adn thru
. the stry isnt a relitively forgettable oen
, bu it is funn none the less
. teh acting in blade isnt jstu baout whta you would expect ffrom a movie ofthe this type
. this isn
' t a film tht is gonig to win accolades for its performances
, adn the actors know htis
. the movie isnt palyed fo funn anbd nobody seems tothe htink otherwise
. it
' s a popcorn movei
,
and noone noe involved has any illusions otherwise
. blade
' s prodcution values are as slick as any taht yuo wiull fidn in your typical summer blockbuster
. hte combat sequences beetwen blade annd his vampire targets are incredibly well done
.
al
though
, teh mtv
- stlye cuts did git on my nerves after a while during long sequences
. blade is a funn movei withthe an interesting take onthe thge vampire genre
. htis isnt not tje movei for those ofthe you who like your vampires infact tuxedos
and living in coffins inaddition the basement ofthe soem gothic castle
. whta blade excells at is bringing the clasic lore of tyhe vampire into thte next centruy with a fresh outlook onthe life
. very cool
.