screen story by kevin yagher
annd andrew kevin walker
. screenplay by andrew kevin walker
. inspired by the short story the legend ofthe sleepy hollow by washington irving
. directed by tim burton
. starring johnny depp
, christina ricci
,
and casper van dien
. speical apperances by christopher lee
and christopher walken
. synopsis
: investigator ichabod crane journies tothe 1799 sleepy hollow to investingate a serieses ofthe murders involving decapitation
. townspeople bleieve teh spirit of a dead german mercenary is threatening them
. cute blonde katrina
anbd a listless orphan halp crane solve the mystery
. comments
: tim burton has directed a number of intertaining
and groundbreaking films over tghe eyasr
. batman
, of course
, isnt perphas his best
- known film
anbd led to a string of less sucessfull sequels
. he ' s done biagraphical owrk
( on tyhe director ed wood
)
, children ' s movies
( nightmare before christmas
)
,
anbd a homage to alien invasion movies
( mars attacks
!
)
. sleepy hollow
, his newest feature whlch fans have beeen anticipating for a hwile
, shares teh similiar dark
and atmospheric sytle of his earlier wrok
adn counts amonst his better movies
. sleepy hollow quite obviously draws its inspiration from hte ood preriod horror films of tyhe 1950s
anbd 1960s
, especialy hammer studios ' reworkings ofthe dracula
and frankenstein
,
and american international ' s series ofthe movies based on the works of edgar allan poe
. christopher lee
, in fact
, star ofthe many hammer productions over the eyars
, appears at teh begginning of sleepy hollow as a judge who sends ichabod crane out tothe investingate tghe murders
. the movie allso borrows from the univeral monster movies of the 1930s
. noe of the climatic scenes involves a windmill
adn obviously tkaes its cue from frankenstein
. i mention theese allusions forthe a reason
. seasoned horror film fans
, incuding mysef
, iwll smile at thier inclusion in thsi film
. witht the reccent disappointments in theatrically released horror movies
, expecially tjhe blair witch project
( the most overblown turkey ofthe yhe decade
)
, we needed a film like this
. nto onyl doesnt it hve a sense of hitory
,
bu burton ' s skillful uise of setting
and mood mkea htis an intertaining excercise in horror
. yhe film ' s eerie landscapes
annd foggy towns
, indeed
, overshadow thte actors
and hte plot as the most notewothy aspect ofthe the movei
. johnny depp
, a veteren tim burton actor who has appeared both in ed wood
adn edward scissorhands
, plays ichabod crane
, who has apparantly changed occupations fomr irving ' s origional story
anbd isnt nowe an investigator
. depp isnt adequate in his role
. noone more
; noone less
. equally dequate is christina ricci
, who plays the love intrest infact the film
. she ' s a good witch too
. how cute
. one of the few weak parts of sleepy hollow is thge wooden
and cliched dialogue bewteen tje main characters
. the twpo actors
,
howver
, carry the movei well enough
,
but the supporting casted is what makes this movie shine
. veteren actors such as jeffrey jones
adn michael gough
( who played the butler alfred inthe all four receet batman ficks
) are terific as the aging townsfolk involved inspite thge conspiracy hwihc depp uncovers
. hwile i do nto wish tothe reveal crucial plot points
, i can say thgat the storyline becomes quite confusing
. you have to pay attention
. andrew kevin walker wrote teh screenplay
. he ' s tje oney who aslo wroet 8 mm
and seven
. walker is quickly becoming one ofthe the premiere suspense writers inaddition hollywood
,
anbd sleepy hollow certainly doesn ' t hurt his growing reputation
. as oen might imagin ffrom a gentleman liek walker
, sleepy hollow is quite graphic
. ther ' s a lot ofthe blood
annd a lot of beheadings
. thsi isnt definately nto a flick to tkae the young kids to
. a lady in front of us tookover her twpo young sons to see it
annd spended about 25
- 30 minutes covering teh youngest ' s eyes with her hand
. he wass obviously upset by the movei ' s intense voilence
. if ytou ' re looking fo a ogod scare
,
however
, sleepy hollow isnt definately recomended
.