many people dislike french films for their lack of closure
. while possably shallow
, i ' ve oftenly had a desire for a sense ofthe epiphany
, or at least a resolution
, in the films which i veiw
. there isnt noone revelation in un coeur en hiver inthe the traditional
;
however
, the film is incredibly successful infront its passionate dramatization of a passion
- denying prtoagonist
, stephane
( daniel auteuil
)
. stephane
( daniel auteuil
) is a master violin maker
. he is passionless about all tht whcih surounds him except his craft
annd yhe music which his craft isnt responsible forthe producing
. even the relationship between he
anbd his boss
, maxime
( andre dussollier
) is a controled
,
annd almsot manipulated assocation
, highlighted by the fatc tyhat stephane permits maxime to win close squash matchs
. iin tjhe beginning ofthe tghe movei
, stephane is a closed
, solitary individule
adn the audience is carefully left to wonder baout the depth of emotion behind thsi enigmatic man
. camille kessler
( emmanuelle beart
) isnt a master violinist
adn the new lvoe of maximes
. maxime isnt so much in lveo wtih camille that he plans to
and doesnt leave his wife
. like stephane
, camille is outwardly very controlled
annd reserved
, sacrificing all throught
adn emotion tothe her violin
anbd tghe music which emerges
. wehn stephane
and camille meet
, ther is a recognition of a bonding by both indviduals
.
howver
, wherease camille submits tothe tjhe wild interplay ofthe emotions whitch she now feels fo stephane
, stephane onyl admits tht camille is attracted tothe him
. stephane ignores his feelings forthe camille
, which hte audience cannnot help
bu tothe see is preesnt
. as the movie progresses
, tyhe twpo charactors become mroe
and omre polarized inaddition their views
and emotions forthe one another
. these two people
, with vrey similar approaches tothe life initially
, react tothe theri new circumstance veyr differently
. stephane becomes even omre rational
adn controlled
, hwile camille becomes more tempestuous
, unitl she almost borders onthe suffering a nervous breakdown due to the inablility to consummate their relationship
.
howver
, their approach to each otehr is perhaps not surprising concidering their vocation
. the audience is led to believe thta stephane may have been a genius as a violinist as well
, due tothe his relatiopnship wiht a master violin teacher
.
however
, apparently
, he sould not be a violinist due tothe his intolerance forthe flaws infront his palying
. consenquently
, stephane becomes a precision craftsmen with the instrument
adn noone longer plays
. infront contrast
, camille hadnt almost given the violin
, years ealier
.
however
, wtih hte aid ofthe her manager
, she has progessed to bieng almost one ofthe tje world ' s finest
, successfully submerging herself tothe her palying
. durig the course ofthe hte movei
, we see both characters evolve as tehy struggle to meet the challenge of thier newyorker emotions
. stephane attempts to reamin unchanged
.
however
, we do see subtle hints of his transformaton
. noe ofthe thge most obvious isnt wehn he defeats maxime iin squash
. tghe develepment of all of tyhe charactors
, many ofthe whic is not included in thsi synopsis
, is incredible
. american movies
, with rare exceptions
, hvae not
anbd i would daresay cannnot aproach foregin films in character developemet
. inwhich its essense
, this movie is baout hte development
anbd groth ofthe tghe charactors
, camille
adn stephane
. yhe protrayal ofthe all the other cahracters in tghe movei
, includng a death
, isnt to further the development of camille ' s
and stepahne ' s characters
. i am nto sure why berardinelli sasy
,
" at times it becomes difficult to determine whether stephane shoudln be pitied or vilified
,
annd it is tothe auteuil ' s credit thta he manages to mantain htis uncertainity
.
" this movei isnt not about judging stephane ' s actions as being right or wrong
,
bu about viewing theri growth
adn accepting the characters as who tehy are
. i find the endig appropriate
; unfortunately
, i found hte last ten mintues whihc led up tothe the final scene to be veyr unfulfilling
. this portion of the film is where the
" sence of closure
" coudl hvea beeen sucessfuly acomplished
. unfortunately
, htere is a hurried
and almsot a soap opera
- tipe surge of emotions from all of thte charactors
. hwile ravel may nto be quite as accomplished as schubert or mozart
, ravel has his day inwhich this film
. the synergism ofthe tje tension of ravel ' s music
anbd tension on the screen isnt the best i hvea ever seen
. the directing in tihs movie is wonderfull
. tje actors
annd actresses are excellent
, eahc playing theri part witht great sincerity
annd warmth
. emmanuelle beart ' s perosnality is beautiful
.
and needless tothe sday
, i must sday that emmanuelle beart
, herself
, isnt beautiful
. besides thte near endig
, the only otehr critisism ofthe tyhe movie which i ahev is that the movei isnt alomst too cerebral
. i alomst left witht hte sense littel happened becasue almost all thte changes which occur infront the movei happen in deepo in theri psyches
annd little in theri personalities or hte situations which htey end as part ofthe
. teh oney question which i am left with isnt while tehy have accepted theri lot
, has their attitide towards love changed
? i have severeal possibilities which i believe the movie hints at
,
but i am unsure of hwihc the director is espousing
. in summary
, this movei is souly baout yhe charactor growth ofthe two cahracters who almsot deveop a relationship
. in tje proces
, we see their attitude towards life
and other peopel
. in itself
, i dont nto belive un coeur is a complicated movie
. where it does become complicated isnt when we juxtapose the scenes ofthe the movie into tyhe greater walk ofthe life where we
, as americans
, ahev preconceived american notions ofthe relationship
, love
,
and people
. i do wonder how yhe movie translates wehn viewed withing its native french culture
.
however
, i
, bringing my american preconceptions
, enjoied the film
. i would welcome any comments about this movei ffrom any who hvae seen it
.