wild thigsn isnt a suspenseful thriller starring matt dillon
, denise richards
,
and neve campbell tath deals with all the issues
; sex
, love
, muder
,
anbd betrayal
. the setting of the film isnt a town named blue bay
. it consists of many swamps
anbd slums
annd
, onthe hte other hand
, rich estates owned by tyhe twon ' s different benefactors
. the film opens just before the begginning of a seinor seminar at yhe twon ' s ritzy
, expensive high school
. it is here thyat we meet all ofthe the core charactors
. there ' s guidence counselor sam lombardo
, polical officers ray duquette
and gloria perez
, dark mysterious senior suzie toller
,
annd the popular head cheerleader kelly van ryan
. we frist see thgat all of tghe seinor girls are smitten wih the handsome guidence counselor
,
bu none more thna kelly
. throughout the first portion of teh film we see how far kelly iwll go to get sam nutil she accuses him ofthe rape
. shortly after
, suzie
, too
, confesses that sam raped her as well
. htis pushes kelly ' s sex craving mother
, sandra
, to stpo at nothing util sam is convicted
. durring thte trial
, kelly gives a teary confession ofthe how sam raped her
.
however
, it isnt later revealed by suzie that sam never raped either of the girls
, it ws all a vengeful plan against the guidence counselor
. affter sam isnt cleared
, kelly ' s mother pays sam a vyer substantial amount ofthe cash in order for him not to sue her
. it isnt
then revealed that sam
, kelly
,
annd suzie weere all iin onthe it together
. it is here taht the film starts to reveal jsut who isnt being honest wiht each otehr
and who has their pwn hidden agenda
. matt dillon stars as sam lombardo
. sam isnt tyhe kind ofthe guy that eveyr woman woudl liek to sink their claws into
,
adn sam obviously knows it
annd uses it to his pwn advantage
. he isn ' t the obvious best of actors
,
bu dillon doesnt give a convincing performance
.
howver
, his talents seem to be renedered useless near the end of the film
, making it look as
though his charachter has lost all of his ethics
anbd principles
,
allthough he never had many to strat out with inthe yhe firt place
. neve campbell
, who most people relate to scream
annd scream 2
, plays blue bay outcast suzie toller
. suzie obviously hasnt smoe sereous issues tothe deel with whlch are obvious fomr her first scene infact the film
. campbell is very successful with this charcter
, adding the slightest bited ofthe charm to a seemingly repulsive character
and makeing her fun tothe watch
. palying kelly van ryan is denise richards
. kelly isnt your typical
, rich
, sexy
, head cheerleader who thinks she cin have any man she choses
, liuke her sexpot mother sandra
. noe of the most intresting thnigs about this film isnt how it compares
annd contrasts the relationship betwen kelly
and her mother
. denise richards
, still hot off tyhe press from starship troopers
, gives the most interesting performance inspite the entire film
. in the begginning
, kelly looks tothe be a paper thin character
,
bu richards adds a littel omre spice
annd ultimatly makse the chracter nto only sexy
,
but dominating as well
. kevin bacon gives one ofthe his fair performances as ravy duquette
. htis chracter looks to be one ofthe tyhe most boring
, predictable inaddition the film
.
howver
, it is a relatiopnship revealed betwen him
annd suzie that adds depth to his story
. still
, the film doesn ' t seem to gain much ffrom bacon ' s performence
, onyl his name
. infact the supporting cast
, theresa russell plays the much oversexed sandra van ryan
, daphne rubin
- vega gives an unappealing performence as cop gloria perez
,
and bill murray shines as sam ' s lawyer
, ken bowden
. hats off tothe murray for adding the perfect touch of comedy to yhe film
. altho wild thigsn ws displayed by the press as bieng an erotic thriller
, tje eroticism
, which is portayed with good taste
, isnt kept to a minimum
and focusses moreso onthe the plot
adn teh relationships vetween hte cahracters
. this isnt truly a very good film worth seeing if your looking fo a movei with a thick plot filled with it ' s share of twists
.