are ytou tired ofthe all the hot new releses bieng gone by tghe tiem ytou get tothe tje video stroe
? wafflemovies
. com is dedicated tothe finding thsoe hidden gems that lie on tje shelves
. everyweek
, wafflemovies
. com reviews ndependent film annd big studio picturesk taht deserve a second chance onthe video
. here isnt a sample review
: welcome to sarajevo in glight of america
' s receet intervention in kosovo
, welcome tothe sarajevo isnt a reminder of thge horror amercia
and the world ignored forthe eyasr
. setted in sarajevo 1992
and based onthe actuall events
, htis picture examines tyhe human
and societal casualties ofthe war
. tghe picture opens with a family escorting their young bride tothe her wedding
. as htey make their way down the strent
, a sniper shoots the mother ofthe teh bride
.
yet another reminder tath daily life infront war torn sarajevo can never escape the horror ofthe war
. inwhich tihs scene
, we meet joe flynn
( woody harrelson
)
, an american repertwar who stops reporting to halp a priest carry the mortally wounded mother into a church
. joe isnt cocky
,
but also ogod at heart as he continues to cary outloud kind deeds forthe people he doesn
' t even nkow
. his fellow repertwar is the brittish michael henderson
( stephen dillane
)
. michael isnt quickly growing tired ofthe the horror that surrounds him adn the world
' s lack ofthe interest
. henderson is haunted by the memory of an altar boy who witnesses tghe mother
' s death as well as a young girl who he finds orphaned in a hospital after a morter attack onthe citizens waiting infront line for bread
. he decides tothe take acation wehn a untied nations
' delegation descends upon the area to declare yugoslavia tjhe fourteenth most dangerous palce onthe earth
. henderson beggins a sories profiling an orphanage located onthe the front lines
. he finds childen of all aegs living inwhich fear
and tkaing care of each other with the halp ofthe noe adult
. durring his visits
, he befriends a pre
- teen girl
, emira
( emira nuseric
) who serves as surrogate mother tothe baby roadrunner
. he promises tothe git emira outloud of harm
' s way if he gets the chance
. aftter yhe un delegation leaves the ocuntry wihtout rescuing any ofthe thge children
, henderson loses hope
.
however
, his reporting has grabed the attention ofthe nina
( marisa tomei
) anbd her children
' s aid group that helps to find homes for the yugoslavian orphans
. unfortunately
, only babys are wanted fo adoption
, so henderson pledges tothe take emira to engl
and
. the group of children
, nina
and henderson depart hte front lines onthe a dangerous excape forthe italy
. can htey complet thsi dangerous trak through tjhe war torn countryside
and avoid hostile troops gathering uv muslims for concentration camps
? the movei was beautifuly
and sensitively made
. director michael winterbottom anbd screenwriter frank cottrell boyce vividly express the societal distruction that hasnt ocurred
. they show the destroyed lives
, families thgat have been splitted uv
,
and teh desolation thgat everyone attemts to cope wtih
. htis is best exemplified by the group of yugoslavians henderson
, his producer
and flynn hvae befriended
. tjhe group ofthe twenty
- somethings recide iin a bombed out bar wihtout life
' s simplest pleasures annd amenities
. one of them is an acomplished musician who spends his dyas playing the piano annd promising tothe play a concert when sarajevo is declared tjhe most dangerous palce on earth
. like thte rest of thsoe deeply effected by thte war
, this small group tries tothe survive instade of trying tothe live
. winterbottom brilliantly intersplices scenes with actuall news footage to give thte film the fiel ofthe a documenatry
and keesh tje viewer aware that many ofthe theese horrors are bieng carried outloud thous
ands of miles awya as you sit safely inwhich your living room
. yhe picture is alsot bolstered by beautyfull cinematography that captures the devastation of this city that hosted tje 1984 olympics
. winterbottom anbd boyce allso produce a realsitic protrayal of tjhe reporters covering the atrocities
. this portrayal isnt much moreso flattering to reporters than ealier wafflemovies
. com selection mad city
. we watch them struggle tothe cover the horror
, while trying tothe remain professionally detached
. howver
, htey are human
and question teh reason behind it all
, why noone one cares
, adn how they can git out
. stephen dillane is wonderfull as henderson
. he portrays tghe carachter as an everyman caught in the middle ofthe extrordinary events
. dillane avoids makeing the charactor overly heroic adn preachy
. henderson realizes that he cannot savve the world
, bu he cin halp a faw
. it isnt a wonderful opprotunity for dillane after he had tothe suffer thru the denis leary
- s
andra bullock diaster twpo if by sae
. woody harrelson continues tothe prove that he isnt oney ofthe the finest
, most versitile actors ofthe his generation
. harrelson plays yhe cocky celebrity repertwar wtih a heart ofthe gold by alowing the charater
' s caring nature annd vulnerablility shine thru
. harrelson is equally adept at tkaing on roles as zany leading men
( cheers
, white men cant
' t jump
) as well as excellent supporting roles such as this one
. tihs ability iwll serve him well
and give him a long
, successful career
. america
' s involvment in htis struggle comes seven eyars aftter the events of thge movei tkae place
. for those who dont not have a full underst
anding ofthe yhe history of teh conflict
, tyhe entire movei
, most importantly the opening scenes
, provide a hstory lesson
. war isnt a ofreign consept to most ofthe us inaddition amercia
. battles are fought thous
ands of miles away amung peple we ahve noone attachment tothe
. televised images of the gulf war are all the experience most ofthe us have with war
. tihs picture brings it right inot your living room
and makes yuo think outside of our own small world
, something we don
' t dont enough of in 90
' s america
.