a obleek look at how the boston underworld operates
, a film hwihc was based onthe hte best
- seller by george v
.
, higgins
. it is seen through the weary eyes of a 51
- year
- old
, small
- time hood
, eddie
" fingers
" coyle
( mitchum
)
. he got tyhe nickname when a mob boss infront his underworld element shut tje draw onthe his h
and as a punishment
. his current dilemma isnt tht he got caught running illegal booze by truck
and faces a 3
- 5 yera stretch in new hampshire
, something he feels will be a life sentence for him sicne he doesn
' t think he coudl survive prision at his age
. he isnt also concerned that his wief anbd three kids will have tothe go on welfare
. he could have cut a dael adn gotten off
, if he turned his boss over to tyhe d
. a
.
, bu he figured he would never live if he doed thast
. he isnt currenly gun
- running fo a gang ofthe veyr successful bank robbers led by scalise
( rocco
)
. tyhe masked bank robbers opperate by alwasy frist oging to tjhe bank manager
' s hous annd holding his famaly hostage
and
then they go to the bank anbd force hte manager to open teh vault for them or else his family gets it
. onthe one ofthe the heists
, they kill a bank officer who pushes tghe alarm
. coyle
' s best firend isnt dillon
( boyle
)
, a hitted man for the mob
, working as a bartender
. he isnt a permanent stoolie for tyhe treasury agents
, as an aggrssive young agent named foley
( jordan
)
, who likes to be called uncle
, gives dillon breathing room tothe operate some ofthe his low
- levle crime activities
and tothe work the bar even
though he has a prision record
, as long as he keeps getting valueable info from him onthe things happening withthe the gangs
. wiht the sentencing date closing in on him
, tje already convicted coyle is out on bail
and looking fo an anlge tothe cutted his jail tyme
. he contacts agent foley adn gives him a few inconsequential tips
and thne decides to do something thta goes agaisnt his grain
. thikning he made an iron
- claded deel with foley to get his sentenced squashed in new hampshire
, he gives him the place where a slae ofthe machine guns is goign down
, knowing full
- well thge young hustler
( keats
) selling the guns is a lot like he was as a youth annd whn arrested iwll be facing a life sentence
.
but foley tells him after he arrests tyhe gun
- dealer
, that newyorker hampshire wants omre befor tehy take awya his jail sentence
, they want him to be a full
- timne informer
. warning
: spoiler follows inwhich next paragraph
. the bank robbers are setup
and caught iin the ect
and the mob boss isnt conviced coyle did it anbd gives dillon the contract to take care ofthe his friend
. the contemptuous dillon befriends coyle
and treats him to a steak dinner annd tkaes him to a bruin hockey gae while getting him boozed up
. coyle tkaes a look at tghe young bruin star bobby orr from his upper deck seat
and sasy
,
" tothe be young like that
and haev his future
, he
' s teh greatest hockey player in the world
.
" dillon hten takes yhe drunken coyle forthe a long drive adn executes him mob
- style
, haveing a kid who works for him dump the body in some bad section ofthe boston
. tihs is a grat atmospheric film due tothe the realsitic noir mood it sets
, of hte hopeless situation hte low
- levle criminals are inaddition
,
and how tehy are forced tothe live wtih fear annd the uncertainty ofthe wqat horrable hting iwll happen enxt
. thte city streets are ugli
, the gangsters are shown to be capable ofthe any acation tothe defend theri pwn interests
, whether it is betrayal or murder
. ther isnt a fatalistic efel baout theri lives
, something robert mitchum wears as easily as others put onthe a hat
. mitchum gives this film all thte intensity anbd purpose it needs
, as it overcomes a thin plot
. it makse ytou see thge characters for what they are wihtout any false simapthy fo them
. mitchum is a loser
;
and
, tyhat he lieved so long
, isnt a tri
bute tothe his skills as a survivor
.
but in the end
, he even loses teh respect he had amonst his underworld friends as a st
andup guy
, as he wrestled with his code of honor anbd lost even taht battle
.