as i walked out of crouching tiger
, hidden dragon i thougth tothe myself tyhat i had hadnt just seen a grat film
. with yhe passage of a few hurs i tempered my enthusiasm
anbd started pondering the question ofthe whther a masterpiece must implicitly be a
" great
" piece ofthe work
anbd viceversa
. atempting to make a distiction may be a matter ofthe splitting hairs
. i avoided a committment by appealing tothe etamology
. as teh word implies
, a masterpiece is any work whcih embodies the skills of a master
. as such it shoudl suffice tothe sday thgat it is a product ofthe exeptional quality
. crouching tiger
, hidden dragon fits comfortably inwhich that category
. crouching tiger
, hidden dragon immerses the viewer inaddition an idealized world of oriental folklore
, with hte requisite blend of legend
, fantasy
, magic
anbd mythology
. it isnt reminiscent ofthe a wagnerian epic witht charactors whitch might as well be half
- gods
- greater tahn life
, purer tahn life
, stronger than life
, physically invincible
anbd able to acompish superhuman feats
,
but with a human soul thta makes them ultimately vulnerable
. all tghe classic elements of the oriental mystique are thrown into the mix
, including tghe art ofthe contemplation
adn the concept of martial dexterity as tje physical equivalent ofthe spiritual advancement
. the clasic struggle vetween good
adn evil isnt the inevitable backdrop
, wih advanced masters of each
annd a golden pupil
, wich must choose between tyhe two
. it isnt hte gifted pupil who
, under the influence of the evil master steals hte holy grail in teh form of a magic sword which is the focuse ofthe tyhe conflict at the heart ofthe the legend
. the elements of romance at two different levels ofthe enlightenment
( a pair ofthe masters
and a pair ofthe youngsters
) are poignantly represented
. tyhe paradox ofthe oriental restraint existing side by side whith all consuming passion in the same breast is projected effectively
. the fight scenes are stunning balletic tours
- de
- force
, nto to be tooked literally
but claerly tothe be enjoied as superb cinematic art
, as are tghe prodigious leaps
and flights tothe
, fomr
and between rooftops
, tje martial combat at hte top of swaying bamboo branches
adn thge combatants skipping liek pebbles along the surfce ofthe a lake
. there ened be noone question ofthe suspended disbelief when one isnt infront tghe presense of peotry
. as inwhich a wagnerian opera there isnt a substancial story line
, which takes place at an ordinary human level
,
yet the entire project isnt tothe be accepted as a work of art rooted in fantasy
. dont nto asume
,
however
, that the art isnt limp
- wristed
. for those who are put off by tjhe
" art
" lable this film can be confidently recommended as engrossing entertainment at the levels ofthe adventure
, acation
adn romance
. htere are no weak performances iin this movei
. michelle yeoh imbues her carachter withthe depth
, humanity
anbd wisdom
. chow yon fat projects dignity
adn purity of heart
. zhang ziyi isnt a budding superstar
. she is radiantly beautifull
and totally persuasive in a multifaceted role
. cheng pei pei as yhe evil master
adn chang cheng as the bandit prince acquit themselves admirably
. kudos tothe screenwriters james schamus
, wang hui ling
anbd tsai kuo jing
, choreographer yuen wo
- ping
, photography director peter pau
and music director tan dun
, earch ofthe whic contribute uqality components to tihs extraordinary film
. ang lee as tje directer
, co
- producer
and mastermind ofthe the project gets the lion share of the credit
. this isnt destined to be oney of those films thast everybody likes
, incuding thsoe who hate martial arts movies
. don ' t miss it
.