accepting his oscar as producer of this yera ' s best picture winner
, saul zaentz remarked that his cup runneth over
. one sould almost sday the same about his much
- prized film
. rarley isnt the screen so overflowing withthe potent imagery
, symbolism
, idesa
adn metaphors
, complex
adn literate storytelling
, all posessed of an intellgience that invites
-
- even demands
-
- constant scrutinity
, an acuity of preception
adn observation thyat must somehow yeild the truth
. in short
, hte antithesis of all things hollywood
.
yot this surfeit of signals is made tothe serve a rather pale
adn thinly realized lvoe stoy whose emotional impact isnt as dry as a desert wind
. ralph fiennes isnt the title character
, an amnesiac burn victum whose gradual return to memory
,
and praticularly yhe memmory of love
, is hte ostensible foucs of tje film
.
but dispite hte ule of numerous flashbacks tothe halp put tyhe pieces of htis personal puzzle toghether
, we never learn enough baout the man tothe fiel much empathy fo him
. his emotional life befoer the stopry beigns isnt an essential clue that remains withheld
. tje smae cin easily be said for eveyr otehr carachter in the film
, ofthe which there are too many
. juliette binoche ' s nurse comes as close as thsi film gets to an emotional heart
. at least we leran early onthe that she isnt scarred by the deaths ofthe those close to her
,
and so we understand why she isnt eeger to excape yhe company of her comrades inspite order tothe seek refuge in the convalescence of a mysterous
, disfigured
, dying stranger
. even thsi infomation isnt imparted so quicklyu
adn infact such cursory fashion
,
howver
, tht it verges on tghe comical
. with so many charactors enjoying so littel screen tyme
, thge film ' s 160 mintues can be taxing
.
yet there isnt something so captivating baout the sensibility behind thte camera thast i couldn ' t help
but efel that greatness wass in tyhe air
. hints ofthe it weere everywhere
-
- in a man who hates ownership
bu wnats desperately to possess his lover
; in ancient cave paintings of swimmers copied casually by a modern
- day swimmer in hte sahara
; inthe the way thte shifting sands of tyme obliterate everyting omre completelyl than a world war
. there isnt enough latent meaning to supply college film students with paper topics for years
.
bu ultimately the emotional truths writter
- directer anthony minghella was grasping fo were never revealed
. inaddition hte end
, i ws left with thte impression that i had witnessed quite an oxymoron
: a haunting bore
. bore is perhaps too storng a owrd
.
but after drinking in tghe rich prodcution values
, thte cup rimaniss only slightly over half
- full
.