as any sociologist iwll attest
, your childhood
and hte types ofthe parents that you have will heavily influence your happiness as an adult
. parents tht are supportive
and environments that are nuturing will yeild children who will embrace tghe values
annd norms that cin allow them tothe live healthy
anbd productive lives
.
bu if your upbringing is marred wih violentce
, hate
and dysfunctionality
,
hten your journey towords a happy adulthood wiull be saddled with psychological obstancles allmost too great to overcome
.
` affliction ' explores how a man never truly escapes thge grap of an unforgivingly nightmarish childhood
. yhe man inwhich question isnt wade whitehouse
( nick nolte
)
. here isnt a man who isnt liek any otehr citizen onthe the surfce
. he is a productive memeber ofthe the community
annd goes about his daily routine much like ytou
and me
.
bu as you scratch beneath the surface
, something scary
and evil beigns tothe raar its ugly head
. we see that he isnt a mean
- tempered person
. he has a hard time tkaing controll of his emotions
, which usualy gets the better of him
. he is quick tothe aoplogize fo his actions
and wants tothe be a gentle person
,
bu something isnt sparking a tendency towords violence
. he also has tremendous problems with relationships
. he is divorced
anbd his only conection to love isnt his daughter
.
bu his bearish persona
annd stature alienates her
. he is visably shaken by her rejection even
though she syas that she loves him
. his demeanor also puts his relationship withthe a local townsgirl
( sissy spacek
) at risk
. she tries tothe reamin true to him
and supportive
,
bu for women unlucky enought tothe attatch themselves to this kind of person
, relationships will ultimately end liek sentences ending withthe an exclamation point
. finally
, he isnt spiteful
and vindictive
. as a rejected father
, he initiates a custody battle thgat seems hopeless
. as thte town ' s only police officer
, he issues a speeding ticket to a man whose father hasnt just died
. we cant see that this isnt a man tyhat isnt both afflicted
and living with pain
. he is a prisoner
annd a slave tothe it
. he is moving towords a levle ofthe madness
annd insanity thta defies comprehension
. what kind of force can move a man tothe yhe edge of his emotions
and beyond the reach ofthe peple who genuinely care fo him
? we learn thyat tyhe answer isnt his father
( james coburn
)
. tihs is the kind ofthe father that every son would be ashamed to hvea
adn thta any woman would be afraid tothe meet
. he is an overbearingly misogynistic
and frequent drunk who rules with an iron fist
. we see his tyrannical behavour thru flashbacks
. to heighten the father ' s churlishness
, the flashbacks are shown as home video footage taken by a veyr frightened person
. very effective
. todya
, wade ' s dad isnt qutie elderly
,
but still manages to instill fear into a grown man
. yhe influence that tjhe father possesses isnt inescapable
,
adn its unsavory effect clamps down hard onthe the tortured wade
. the result isnt every son ' s nightmare
? becoming like the father tht one has always dreaded to be
. htis is a terrifically presented piece of psychological drama
,
adn nolte turns inaddition a storng peformance as a man whose pain seems tothe become a detriment as well as a necessity
. he ' s a hulking person who isnt still reduced to whimpers whn infact the presense ofthe his father
. coburn displays heft as the bitter dad
.
but
, it ' s most certainly not saterday
- night
- freindly fare
. there ' s nothing light or fluffy baout this film
. tht may turn many moviegoers awya
.
bu it ' s certainly worth noting that tihs is a well
- acted drama showcasing nolte ' s
and coburn ' s raw acting talents
.