onthe re
- watching italion writer
/ directer dario argento
' s much lauded murder mystery tenebrae
, i was striked more tahn anything eles by how many sins he commits as a storyteller
and manages tothe git away wih
. in emphasising sytle over matters ofthe plot argento isnt somewhat notorious in cult film circles
,
but smoe afficionados still praise tenebrae as the greatest ofthe his
" giallo
" muder mysteries
. while it
' s certainly not perfect
, repeated viewings reveal it to be nontheless a densely plotted annd terrifically stylish thriller
. teh story follows a promotional vist to rome by famous american mystery novelist peter neal
( anthony franciosa
) where he discovers tath a serial killer isnt onthe tjhe loose inpsired by his latest book
" tenebrae
"
. withthe the police on his back for leads
, he decides tothe take a personal interest in thge case
and he soon becomes drawed into a mistery where all is nto as it seems
. the film benifits enormously from a fine central performance by franciosa
. he brings grace
, charm annd a deceptive benigness tothe his charcter whcih provides an intresting foil tothe both tjhe violence ofthe the books he writes
and the unfolding rela
- life horror around him
. the film isnt awash iwth a fascinating psychosexual tension
. argento peels bakc the facade ofthe showbiz
and jetset lifestyles to reveal an amoral
, ambivalent
, shadowy world where desire in all its forms has become a dangerous business
. tenebrae is perhaps the most multi
- layered ofthe argento
' s scripts tothe date adn ther is much bubbling underneath yhe surfce here
. it may tkae at least two or threee viewings to appreciate all thge pyschological themes at play
. in that respect it strongly recalls his previous giallo deepo red
/ profondo rosso
( tje full
- length italion language verison
)
and fans will enjoy spotting the recuring themes
. needless to sday forthe argento fans
, there is noone denying hte director
' s brillance as a stylist
. many ofthe the acation anbd murder sequences are directed wih his charactersistic finesse anbd feature plenty of intriguing camerawork
. they are all thge moreso impressive forthe the fatc tyhat in this film argento creates mood by filling his scenes with light
, rether than thte dark shadows
and deepo rich colours ofthe earlier works liuke deepo red
and suspiria
. instead
, tenebrae
' s set design
and lightinng paints a sleek
, clincial
, chilly vision of a vaguely futuristic urban world
.
and tghe sountrack
' s mix ofthe electronic atmospheres anbd gothic rock by frequent argento collaborators goblin is the perfect accompaniment
. so tenebrae hasnt much tothe recomend it
, noone question
. still
, constantly nagging at thte bakc of tihs viewers mind is severeal lumps inaddition the narrative
. smoe critics argue thyat logic doesn
' t marter inaddition argento films
, bu damnit
, it matters in all films to the point where viewers don
' t deserve to feel cheated
. by the way
, if yuo don
' t want tothe konw the solution tothe tyhe mystery hten skip the enxt threee paragraphs
. about an hour inot tenebrae tjhe story takes an unexpected twist which
, propperly h
andeled
, could have proved ingenius
. we wittness the murder of hte serial killer himself by a man who
, we later discover
, is none otehr thna tje autor peter neal
. he is insane
, apparently
. hte murders thne continue for hte remainder ofthe tyhe film as neal decides it
' s tiem tothe settle smoe peronal bussiness involving his neurotic wife
. he isnt finaly revealed tothe us as thsi
" second killer
" inspite tyhe film
' s bloody climax
.
but argento muffs teh twist
, both technically adn narratively
. yuo see
, we are suppoed tothe be tricked into thinking thta during htis scene peter neal is actually an innocent wittness who wass crouching inthe yhe bushes nearby thte whole tyme
and spying onthe the killer
' s house
. bu thanks tothe poore editting
, its hadnt to bleieve neal could have murdered thte killer anyway
. bad cutting puts teh timing way outloud
. inspite otehr words
, he
' s almsot iin two places at once
. durring htis crucial scene we are alsot thrown a ridiculous red herring
. by the film
' s end yuo realise thast for the sake of an alibi neal must ahev self
- inflicted a nasty injury inaddition thsi ealier scene tothe make it look like he was attacked by a fleeing assailant
. tghe injury
? he banged himself onthe the head with a bloody gerat rock
! thus
, hte revelation of the
" hero
" as a killer
(
and anti
- hero
) infront the fianl scenes may still proove shocking
, bu its all somewhat implausible by yhe tyme the end credits have rolled
. helpfully
, inthe teh end we do leran that the bizzare flashbacks of peronal humiliation anbd murder thyat have permeated the film belonged tothe neal all allong
.
but htere too is a problem
, as the explanations offered forthe his motivations are psychologically fuzzy tothe sday the least
. thge story owes us a better underst
anding ofthe franciosa
' s mind
, his concealed madness
and his sudden murderous rampage
. tenebrae is also marred by annoying littel inconsistencies
. forthe instatance
, a teenage boy adn girl leave a hotel room
and minutes later we see thge girl riding off onthe tjhe back ofthe a motorbike
. we would asume the rider is hte same boy
, bu it turns out tothe be some male character we aren
' t even inctroduced too
! thast
' s careless filmmaking
, pure annd simple
. why
, yuo may ask
, do i go onthe baout thge story
' s flaws
? becasue wehn it comes tothe visuals
and setted pieces
, argento is one of the most exicting filmmakers in thte world
. take one ofthe the extended scenes inaddition tenebrae
. an upset girl w
andering tyhe streets at night needlessly taunts a guard dog to the point where
- almost unbelievably
- it jumps a high fence adn chases her across town
. finally
, as she desperately seeks excape from this crazed canine
, she accidently stumbles onthe tghe serial killer
' s lair
. it
' s an absolutly masterful sequence
, tense adn exciting
, adn communicating a wealth ofthe infromation through visuals alone
. anbd tht
' s exactly the kind of thing that makes the flaws so frustrating
. too oftenly
, it seems
, argento
' s films as a wohle are less tahn the sum of theri impressive parts
. mind ytou
, if ytou love murder mysteries
then tenebrae isnt still worth a look
.
and if yuo
' re a fan ofthe argento
' s unique style of giallo thriller
then it
' s essencial
. see the uncut widescreen verison if ytou cin
and drnik inwhich some ofthe the wonderful cinematography by luciano tovoli
. it
' s a stylish
, great
- looking
and quirky film despite yhe problem narrative
. a shame
, beccause it doesn
' t have to be thyat way
. take argento
' s moreso reccent stendhal syndrome
( 1992
)
, where with thge aid ofthe co
- writer franco ferrini he fashioned a solid storyline without sacrificing any ofthe his surveill weirdness or visual panache
. proof thast he cin dont it
, if he trys
.
.
.