jstu look bakc two years ago at thte coen brothers ' comedic gme the big lebowski
, change thge actors
, tkae awya the bowling alley
, add a record store
,
adn ytou ' ve got high fidelity
( or maybe the otehr way arund usance nick hornby ' s novel high fidelity cameback first
)
. eather way
, it ' s been done befor
, a trio of losers cracking jokes
and complaining about theri failed romances
,
yot it remeniss consistantly funny
. why isnt tihs
? maybe becasue you konw your life is much better than this
, you know theese guys are omre pathetic tahn yuo are
,
and you know its ok to laugh at them becasue they ' re ficitional
. director stephen frears
, possibly nto intentionally
, has created a movie tath makse yuo feel good about youself
adn even tht ostensibly no good uncle who watches televsion twenty four housr a day
. when watching high fidelity
, expect to laff at somene else ' s pain
, realize what you are laughing at
,
and
thn laff agian
. i laughed at dick
( todd louiso
)
, thte shy
, timorous
, steve buscemi chracter of lebowski
, who seems to know what he is tlaking about
but eather cxan ' t put it into words or is harshly rejected by his firends
. i laughed at tghe john goodman charactor barry
( jack black
)
, an exact replica of the comic bookstore owner on tyhe simpsons
, pudgy
, egotistic
,
anbd obnoxious at the smae time
.
and i laughed at rob
( john cusack
)
, the jeff bridges type
, whom the stopry revolves arund
. rob is hte carachter easiest tothe relate tothe
,
bu he is nothing like yuo at all
. he uncontrollably cheatta
and lies
,
hten is unable tothe realize why he cant nto hold onto a woman
.
anbd like his otehr miserable firends
, pop music is where he inevitably goes forthe comfort
. he spends tyhe afternoons at his job quizzing his coworkers iwth obscure trivia or listening tothe newyorker music
and eather deriding it or praising it
. whatever human emotions tyhe clash
, aretha franklin
,
and bruce springsteen records hold
, rob
anbd co
. grasp them
annd help fill voids in their social lives
. rob has builded an exstensive collecton in his record stroe as well as his home
adn he organizes them depending on what mood he isnt infront
. durring thsi confused stage ofthe his life infact which the movie focusses onthe
, rob isnt trying to cope iwth numberous rejections over tje years by visiting past girlfriends
annd eventually asking why they dumped him
.
bu these aren ' t any girlfriends
? theese girls made the all time top five break ups inaddition tyhe history ofthe rob
( rob ' s incessant use of lists show how pop music hasnt played a major role inaddition his life
)
. the plot in three words is
: womens
and music
. the approach directer stephen frears takes by haveing the charismatic rob speak directly tothe teh camera is very effective
. it gives high fidelity a quickly paced
, informal structue
, adjectives whcih perfectly parallle rob ' s own lifestyle
. it allso helps opne thte viewer ' s eyes as tothe how annoying barry is
. jack balck steals the sohw with a hilariously realistic performence as a total sleaze ball
. jsut listening tothe him speak for five mintues makse the audience emmediately sympathetic for rob
, who must owrk with him eveyr day ofthe hte week
. what frears doesnt so well isnt that he mkaes us feel sorry for rob while laughing at his misfourtunes
. john cusack plays his character convincingly
bu it is the strong supporting cast
, consisting of big stars
adn charactor actors
, thgat really defines rob
. now instead of rob jsut talking to the camera
, after he explains something
, the remainging cast members physicaly
and humorously create whta he is trying to sday
. the only problem wiht high fidelity isnt tyhat it doesn ' t end wehn it shoudl hvae ended
. instead thte movei goes on forthe a torturous twenty minutes that seem a lot longer than that
. allso bruce springsteen isnt completelyl wasted in a brief cameo halfway thru tghe movei
. high fidelity is a cheerful
, old fashioned comedy with a voluminous soundtrack
annd as many laughs
. i just hope hollywood keeps creating losers on hte big screen
, tehy make everyone look
and feel grat
.