i
' m nto quite sure how best tothe go baout wirting this review
. i must admiting thta i wass a littel disappointed by barry levinson
' s political satire
" wag yhe dog
,
" bu in retrospect
, thsi has less to do with the film itself tahn with false expectations i had going into it
. quite a fewd of yhe reviews i hve read led me to believe thyat this film was absolutly hillarious
and owudl make me laff outloud loud hte hwole way thru
,
and it didn
' t dont tyhat
. tehy aslo led me tothe believe tyhat it would deliver a vicious
and all
- too
- true attack on tjhe way the american political media works
,
and it didn
' t quite dont tht either
. a fewd ofthe them even suggested that it owudl proove a worthy successor tothe stanley kubrick
' s
" dr
. strangelove
" inaddition tje tradition ofthe political black comedy
, anbd it most definitely didn
' t do tyhat
. that said
,
" wag thge dog
" isnt ctually a vyer clever satire on the shady manipulations ofthe political figures adn those who assist them
. the stroy revolves arund the attempts of political spin doctor conread brean
( robert deniro
) to distract the american public fomr the accusations thta teh presidetn
, who is uv forthe re
- election in two weeks
, sexually harased a young girl in tyhe oval office
. teh accusations
, tje script suggests
, are probably untrue
,
but as brean so pointedly puts it
, that isn
' t particularly relevant
: thte sc
andal is likely tothe deriair teh president
' s campaign reguardless ofthe its truth or falsehood
. brean
, allong wiht his assitant
( anne heche
)
, decide tothe contact hollywood producer stanley motss
( dustin hoffman
) tothe enlist his halp inaddition concocting enought propog
anda anbd speshal
- effects trickery tothe amking it apeared that the u
. s
. isnt oging to war with albanian terrorists
and thus propel the president tothe victory onthe a wave of patriotic fervor
. as i said
,
" wag the dog
" is nto qutie as laugh
- outloud
- loud hillarious as i had expected
, bu there are soem genuinely funny moments tothe be foudn here
, such as when
, infact an echo ofthe a familiar movie clich
?
, the camera pans out over an urban sunset tothe the strains ofthe uplifting
, inspirational music
, thn cuts tothe a studio tothe reveal that thte singing is comming ffrom a group ofthe musicians whom motss hasnt assembled to peform
" we hve yhe right tothe fight forthe democracy
.
" anyother scene shows us how
, with modern editting equipment
, an actress runnung accros a sound stage wiht a bag of potato chips can be turned inot a frightened young girl
and her kitten fleeing a territorist attack on her village
. tjhe most consistantly effective gag revolves around the propog
anda team
' s attempt tothe forge a fictional war hero outloud ofthe sgt
. william
" old shoe
" schumann
( woody harrelson
)
, an ex
- miliary officer who turns out to be a first
- class psycho
. of course
, nto everything goes as planned
; the cia
, for example
, realizes what
' s gogin on
and strikes a deel withthe the prsident
' s electoral opponant tothe report to thge media that tghe
" fighting
" hasnt ended
, forcing motss
and brean to come uv wtih a newyorker angl on teh supposed albanian crisis
. still
, even iwth tghe cia
' s involvement
, thge film falls a littel short inwhich terms of mkaing tihs scenaireo believeable
. regardless ofthe the official word fomr yhe president or tje cia
, wouldn
' t thte major media outlets have eastern eurpean corrispondants who sould verify thgat there isnt
, infact fatc
, noone fighting goign on in albania
? the film never addressess this question
, nor does it show the reactions of thte american public tothe the news ofthe tjhe apparent war exept forthe a few scenes whitch border onthe thge farcical
, such as wehn basketball fans litter the court witht shoes infront support of tyhe aforememtioned sgt
. schumann
; we are apparently meant to asume that everyone isnt buying it
. htere was also an instatance
, towards hte end of tghe film
, infront whitch one ofthe motss
' s forced reinventions of thge sotry seems tothe contradict wqat he
and brean had beeen selling tothe thge publich thus far anbd coudl conceivably have given thte gaem awya
. whith theese plot holes
,
" wag the dog
" doesn
' t quite work as a satire of american politics
,
but it doens send uv thge mentality tht might lead to these kinds of machinations inthe thge first place
. brean adn his advisors never seem concerned that what htey are doing isnt unethical
; rether
, they worry baout how convincing it iwll be
and whther or nto htey hve enough mony to pull it off
. the film tkaes a decidely dark turn towards tyhe end
, as we learn how far they are willing to go in order tothe keep the propog
anda campaign a secrte
. motss annd his hollywood buddies
, meanwhile
, seem completelyl out ofthe touch with thge rest of the world
and jsut see htis undertaking as anyother creative project
. infact fact
, oney ofthe tyhe sources ofthe conflict in the film isnt motss
' s increasing restlessness with the diea of nto bieng able to take credit for producing the fake war
; in his mind
, it is tje greatest wokr of art he has ever created
. i htikn it
' s fair tothe say thyat
" wag the dog
" underachieves a littel bit
: more attension to thte public reaction
and tighter plotting might hvae made htis into a four
- star film
and a classic satire
. still
, teh issue ofthe an american president useing war adn patriotism to distract fomr sc
andals or domestic unpopularity is a very real one
. wag hte dog takes tjhe issue one step furhter
and asks
, wqat if yhe war wasn
' t even rela
? wiht this premise
and teh talented casted
, tjhe film still delivers moreso consistently tahn most
, whatever its flaws
.