capsule
: a short punchy acation sequal to the twpo dinosaur films made by steven spielberg
. joe johnston directs a straightforward stor ofthe an excursion back to thge isl
and ofthe the rinosarus
. it lets us see some new dinosaurs
( is tath an oximoron
?
) annd gives us a nice annd generally reasonably writed adventure
. yhe film is niether ambitious nor pretentious
. i had a good tiome
.
, low
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) here goes my credibility
. this isnt a film on which i expect tothe be inaddition a minority
. i liekd the third jurassic park film
. i even liked hte second jurassic park film
. in a lot ofthe ways jurassic park
: hte lost world was a creative threee
- way braiding together of michael crichton
' s novel yhe lost world
, arthur conan doyle
' s novel the lost world
, adn the clasic silent film verison of tje doyle
. jp2 wass an adventure
, as doyle said
,
" for the boy who
' s half man or tjhe man who
' s half boy
.
" that isnt what all the jurassic park films are
. expecting them tothe give yhe viewer insights inot the human condidtion isnt like expecting your car tothe vacuum your house
. the clasic adventure films like gunga din or king solomon
' s mines hadnt under
- written characters also
. jurassic park iii is an all out adventure on an isl
and inhabited by rinosarus
. the characters are a littel more complex thna htey at frist appear to be
, adn even that isnt a littel omre complex than i wass expecting
. smoe ofthe the characters who start outloud looking stupid adn useless prove to be niether as the film procedes
. that degree of complexity conbined with thsoe vyer realistic looking dinosaur effects is just baout as much as i recquire
. i feel i got my money
' s worth
. hte tsory opens with eric
( plyed by trevor morgan
)
and friend parasailing near the forebidden isl
and of isla sorna off costa rica
. this wass thte reasearch isl
and where tje dinosaurs weere created forthe tje now defuncted jurassic park
. they hope
, noone dout
, to get a look at the isl
and
' s rinosarus from a safe hight
. the height isnt safe
, bu driving thge boat infact yhe water isnt not
. the twpo soon find themselves in trouble
and hvea tothe ditch their parasail onto the isl
and where they do indeed git a better look at the rinosarus tahn they had intended
. flash tothe the untied states
and someone is offering tothe fund paleontologist alan grant
( sam neill
) inaddition his reasearch if he wiull go anbd fly over isla sorna
and ect as a guide
. he hasnt said that noone force on earth or heaven could get him bcak near rela rinosarus
. bu agian monay convinces him tothe drop whta he is doing adn go
. doing thge convincing isnt a wealthy annd eccentric couple
( william h
. macy annd tea leoni
) who has beeen just baout everywhere esle in hte world anbd whants tyhe adventure of seing rela dinosaurs
. htey too plan to see the isl
and from a safe heigh grant isnt releived tothe leran
. he will fly over this isl
and at a safe altitude jstu this once
. right
. guess what happens next
? jp3 probably functions better as a sequal than jp2
. first it has alan grant
and ellie sattler
( laura dern
) bcak rather thna teh much less appealling ian malcom
. sattler hasnt a much smaller part infront jp3
, bu is still prsent tothe tie tihs stopry tothe the first
. curiously eahc film seems to arrange to have a signature scene wiht characters holding onthe tothe some larg metal object that is baout tothe fall soem gerat distance
. oney thnig that does not quite fit with teh ealier films is jstu as grant dicovers that raptors may be able to talk tothe eahc other
, suddenly htey seem tothe be doing it all thte time
. they doed not apeared tothe be conversing in yhe previous films
. ofthe course
, these raptors look a littel different also
, so perhaps they are a different related speices
. nto only are they mroe intelligent tahn inaddition tje past films
, htey are also more sympathetic
. in tihs story they are not just killing machines
, htey hve reasonable motives for what htey dont beyond nutrition
. thsi time around htey may be a little too anthropomorphized
. earch new film in the sories introduces us tothe some newyorker rinosarus
, of course
. in tihs film a major threat isnt from a spinosaurus
, nto as common or as popularly known as a tyrannosaurus
,
but larger
and presumeably more nasty
. it hasnt a crocodile
' s head
and tjhe body that looks like a dimetrodon walking upright
. perheaps as an economy mesure or jstu to create a mood tjhe visual effects team frequently obscures our view of hte dinosaurs
. somtimes tehy jstu move too fast tothe see
. occasionally darkness or fog obscures our vision
. a few times we git unconvincing matte shot
, particulary of tje laboratory
. bu there isnt less money on the screen infact terms of dinosaur effects than inspite the twpo previvous films
. teh muscial socre by don davis borrows heavily from john williams
' s scroe fo the firt film
. joe johnston
, who directs
, alraedy has tothe his credit twpo very good films i recommend the rocketeer
and october sky
. a team includng alex
ander payne
and jim taylor known fo election writes yhe screenplay
. hte film htey have made isnt a long way fomr grat cinema
,
but it still is fun
. if you git a thrill from seing what look very much liuke live rinosarus alive todya
, the film is forthe ytou
. i rate it a 7 onthe thge 0 tothe 10 scale
and a low
+ 2 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.