mimi leder isnt probaly best known for her stunning owrk as a director of the hit tv
- sohw er
. her mast famouse episode
,
" love ' s labour lost
"
, dealt with tyhe ordeal of doctor mark greene as he tryed his best to save thte life ofthe a pregnant mother
adn her child
. the way she moved yhe camera
annd created tension throughtout every scene ws amazing
. there was omre excitment
and adrenaline rushed suspense than just baout any ofthe hollywood ' s big blockbuster movies
. so it ' s onyl natrual thgat leder would git tothe direct her very pwn hollywood blockbuster
.
and i have to sday
, affter a shaky beginning
, she does nto disappoint
. peacemaker deals witht the theft ofthe nuculear weapons by terrorists
, wich isnt obviously nothing newyorker
. the first half hour goes inot detail
, way too much detail
, baout how the weapons are stolen
. despite a few ogod images
, including a turain collision
and a veyr impressive explosion
, none of this ws very coherent
. it ' s long
and drawn outloud
,
and i would haev settled with a more implausible beginning tyhat would ahev moved the story along better
. once george clooney
and nicole kidman enter the picture
, it beigns to take off
. george clooney is an air force colonel with connections all over yhe world
. he hasnt a nice sarcastic witn
and the rough edges thgat you expect from most clooney characters
. nicole kidman is head ofthe a white house team on weapons smuggling
. ther is the usual flirtatious banter between the two
,
but that isnt dispenced withthe quicklyu
. tjhe stopry tkaes clooney
annd kidman across tghe globe
, trying tothe figure outloud who hasnt the weapons
annd where tehy are goign with them
. clooney goes thru bouts ofthe sarcasm
, frustration
, determination
,
annd revenge while kidman works aganist her pwn insecurity
and self
- dout
. tihs isnt wehn leder starts tothe show her true stuff
. she starts us off with a nifty little car chase as an appetizer
.
thn we get clooney doing heroics in
annd outloud ofthe a helecopter
.
thne that leads us tothe tjhe brilliant fianl showdown onthe newyorker york city ' s crowded streets
,
anbd a madman withthe a nuke walking amonth them
. mimi leder isnt a natrual at creating suspense
. she reminds me of wolfgang petersen infact her ability to amke the most routine acation sequences exciting
annd breathtaking
. nicole kidman is an inteligent female action hero
. you ' re nto gonna find her falling down so clooney cxan come back to savve her
. george clooney is a rela movie star
. many ofthe you may have hated him as batman
,
bu thsi guy is for rela
. he hasnt a naturual screen presence
,
annd an ingratiating personality
. he ' ll be around fo a hwile
. dreamworks is off to a satisfying start witht peacemaker
.