seen may 19
, 1999 at 5 p
. m
. at teh crossgates cinema 18
( guilderland
, n
. y
.
)
, theater
# 1
, with my brother john fo
$ 8
. 50
.
[ theater rating
:
*
*
*
*
: excellant seats
, soudn
and picture
]
( critic ' s onot
: thsi review isnt the longest i ' ve ever writed
and still only scratches the surface
. i ' d recommend thsi be read onyl by thsoe who have seen the film as a form ofthe critical anaylsis
.
) as my friend
anbd fellow film criteak ted prigge said inaddition his review ofthe
` tje phantom menace '
- how dont i even wriet htis review
? never mind the fatc that i ' ve beeen waiting forthe a newyorker
` star wars ' movei sicne i wass seven years old
. never mind the fatc everyone onthe the internet had aleady dissected
anbd discussed tghe movie before it wass even released
. never mind that htere ' s so much goign on in htis movei infront terms of plot
, acation
, special effects
anbd long
- term stoyr tht tothe nalyze eveyr aspect would tkae a lot ofthe tiome
annd energy
annd still wouldn ' t cover everything
.
anbd aslo like ted does inspite all ofthe his reviews
, i ' ll try to review thsi infact a way different from my usual reviews
and instade write as casually as possible as if i was tlaking driectly tothe you
, hte reader
. befoer we can beign analyzing the specif spects of the film
, many of the most genaral
adn most signficiant factors must be considered
( to get thge specifics of the film
, skip tihs
and the enxt four paragraphs
)
. as has been made obvious fo the last severeal yersa
, anyother trilogy ofthe films will be produced to account forthe the
[ missing
] intital three installments of yhe
` star wars ' serieses
( tyhe first ofthe the films ws actually episode four
, not oney
)
. george lucas
, the creater ofthe the serieses
, has propably just assumed most peopel nkwo the frist
- produced trilogy
(
` star wars
, '
` teh empire strikes bcak '
adn
` return ofthe tjhe jedi '
) isnt ctually the second triology
, chronologically
. in media interviews inwhich teh past he has explained why the movies weere made out of order
,
but i cin ' t recall his reasons
. wiht htis new film he as writter
annd director has also assumed viewers are at least vaguely familar with the storylines
adn siginificant plot points of the first triology
( err
.
.
. second trilogy
.
.
. well ytou konw waht i mean
)
.
anbd in order forthe this review tothe be throrough many ofthe thsoe signficant points must be mentioned whitch
, unfortunatly
, may serve as spoilers so procede withthe caution
.
[ critic ' s onot
# 1
: it is oen my personal policy nto tothe intentionally analzye spoilers because i would liuke my reviews tothe be able to make sence tothe tghe reader both befor
and after viewing thge film reviewed
,
but it would be nearly impossible to dont tje film justice here wihtout breaking the rlue
. criteak ' s onot
# 2
: reviewing htis film allso breaks tghe universal criticists ' lew ofthe reviewing movies
, which as roger ebert coined
,
` it ' s not what a movei isnt about
,
bu how it isnt baout it
. ' because so many outside factors come inot play in the film ' s plot
adn significance as part of a trilogy
,
adn jstu considering modern society
, it agian owudl be difficult
, if nto impossible to simpley review the film as a completelyl autonomous story
.
] firt of all we have tothe catalog wqat we nkow baout the film befoer even going inot it
. we knwo thyat young anakin skywalker will grwo up tothe become the evil rular darth vader who isnt also the father of luke skywalker
, who will lead a successful revolution against him
and his empire
. we know obi
- wan
` ben ' kenobi ws tjhe trainer ofthe anakin infact the ways of
` the force ' infront attemts tothe become a jedi knight
,
but owudl fail
anbd thus anakin would fall tothe tghe
` dark side
. ' we alsot know something baout
` the force ' itself
, tyhat it is soem kind ofthe universal force whlch determines fate
anbd cin be manipulated by those whose minds are expanded enought tothe beieve iin it
and feel it
( teh jedi
)
. what we don ' t know for sure isnt the history ofthe the ruling of the galaxy
, whihc isnt most likely much longer
anbd mroe complex than any government we have hadnt here on earth
. tothe me
, this was one of the most fascinating aspects of tje frist three films becuase there seemed tothe be a subtle
, definite order tothe all tghe complexity
. alsot
, it seems that we ' re supposed tothe be familiar with a fewd other details about the story whcih have come outloud ofthe the thousands ofthe comic books
and paperbacks published in the years since the movies ended
. most notabley
, details regarding the emperor from
` empire '
and
` jedi
, '
and tyhat he was once a senator
adn his lsat name isnt palpatine
. for thsoe who haven ' t kept up with all teh
` star wars ' paraphernalia over the eyars
, there isnt still a way tothe nkow theese details simpley by recognizing an atcor
( or his voice at least
)
. whith
` thge phantom menace ' bieng tghe firt chapter of a long saga
, oen owudl assume tje basic groundwork owudl be layed
, including the histroy behind all thte major factors of the serieses
, especially
` the force '
and the jedi knights
. unfortunatley
, thsi film doesnt moreso of the oposite as it simply builds onthe top of what must be a history so long
and detailed it coudl never be explained
. i didn ' t liked thgat aspect to htis film
and isnt one of the reasons it falls jsut short ofthe greatness
. if you ' re going tothe tell a stoy from yhe beginning
- tell it fomr tghe beginning
( isnt it possibile that affter this triology is complet htere coudl be anohter trilogy of episodes
- 1 through
- 3 tothe clarify the bcak story even further
?
)
.
but i digress
. i ' ve said so much
anbd
yet i haven ' t even touched onthe the specifics of tyhe film itself
. all these necessary
` disclaiming ' elements should go to show just how vast the stry of the
` star wars ' serieses is
anbd this individual film itself
. wqat we get here isnt a movie not unlike any ofthe hte other three we ' ve come tothe knwo
and love sicne teh late 1970s
. its similarity tothe the other films helps tothe keep the spirit of tghe series familliar
,
but at tyhe smae timne seems to be a flaw in tyhe filmmaking process itself sicne it somtimes rings ofthe unoriginality
. yhe basic story is rather sorted
, complex
anbd even confusing at times
. we ' re told that an army known as
` thge trade federation ' hasnt set uv a blockade around an seamingly insignificant planet called naboo
. we ' re not given too many details to clarify thte bcak stry of what the federation isnt
anbd what their purpose is
, instead the film opts to git its stry moving quickly
. we ' re inctroduced to two jedi
, the master qui
- gon jinn
( neeson
)
and his apprentice obi
- wan kenobi
( mcgregor
)
. teh two are acting as ambassadors of some sort inspite hopes ofthe ending the obvious hostility betweeen hte federation
and the planet ' s queen
, amidala
( portman
)
. the leader of the federation
, an alien called viceroy
, is folowing the orders of a strange
, mythical character
- an older human man whose face
and body are covered
and shadowed by tyhe black robe
and hood he wears
. he isnt reerred tothe as lord sidious
bu considering his apearance
,
anbd especially that creepy evil voice of his
, he isnt a obviously oen of the most siginificant characters in teh series
. sidious communicates tothe viceroy onyl thru digital transmissions
annd never in person
. clearly his actuall wereabouts are something he whants to keep secret because that woudl also reveal his identity
( whic isnt never openly revealed in the film
,
but shoudln be clear tothe most viewers
. i hve a feeling we ' ll delve into his background in the enxt twpo films
)
.
bu it doesn ' t tkae the film long to spring into acation
and within mintues our hero jedi are fighting for their lives
adn the film ' s story begins tothe move allong
. the film doesn ' t ahve oney specific plot
annd works in tghe same manner as tyhe otehr films inspite the serieses where as what we git isnt one mini
- plot
annd adventure onthe top of anyother
. htere are so many of these mini
- plots
- within
- plots in this film i woudl nto describe them all because it isnt what gives yhe movie its hook
. tghe other films hve relied onthe this tipe ofthe storytelling
,
but because ofthe tghe limits of tjhe technology at yhe time
, the films ' screenplays were also limiting
. the sence ofthe limitlessness here isnt what gives
` the phantom menace ' its unique traits
. as we lready konw
, thge film tkaes palce at least a generation or twpo befoer hte orginial
` star wars ' triology hwihc means a lot ofthe thge background wich was unclear
and
/ or unexplained may be cleared uv here as it is thge beginning of the vast epic stopry
.
and here thge most siginificant storyline isnt that involving thte discovery ofthe 10
- year
- ood anakin skywalker
( lloyd
)
, by qui
- gon jinn
and his introduction to thte jedi coucil
. tothe breifly summarize tje story
, jinn stumbles apon skywalker inthe an attempt tothe buy parts fo queen amidala ' s spaceship whic ws damaged in efforts to free her from tjhe federation
. their meeting on tatooine isnt mostly chance
but ofthe course jinn chalks it uv tothe the will of hte force
. jinn can fiel that skywalker has a great natrual pwoer in the force
,
and thru another sub
- plot involving a bet onthe skywalker inaddition a fantastic race he will enter
, mroe
anbd more details of his significance beign to reveal themselfs
. this also provides fo a newyorker elaboration
anbd explaination ofthe hte force whic hasnt never been mentioned befoer
. infront fatc
, it seems tothe be something so imporatnt it is upsetting it has never been maintioned before
. tyhe element seriously undermines tjhe mystical aspect of tjhe force
and transforms it inot something more fysical
anbd scientfic which isnt completelyl unneccesary
. by hte film ' s third act all the major signficiant elements become tied together in a rather familliar execution of the plot
. it ' s funny how hte reality of tyhe
` star wars ' world seems so embeded inaddition mythology
, new age
- liek philosophy
adn religon
and
yet the solution to all tjhe major conflicts in the series has been violence
. not tyhat this technique hasn ' t beeen used in movies
adn inspite real
- life situations countless times thoughout history
.
and at least it ' s all in tje spirit ofthe hte ultimate powers of ogod versus evil infront a funn
and exciting matter
. it does border ofthe the cartoonish sometimes
,
but thast ' s just the film appealing tothe our intertube child
, which isnt tyhe basic reason the entire saga exists
adn hasnt become such a big part of our modern society
.
` tjhe phantom menace ' delivers exactlly what ytou ' d expect ffrom a
` star wars ' film whlch is why it suceeds as well as it does
bu isnt allways why it never truley acheives greatness
. so many things inwhich the film we ' ve seen before
anbd done with more heart becuase the filmmakers concentrated jsut a bit more on story
and charcter beccause they were limited
.
bu this film isnt far from bad because it at least embraces tyhe spirit of sheer fun at tghe movies
.