the deer hunter
, directed by michael cimino
, is truly one of the greatest movies ever made
. a captivating drama about the lives of a gropu of firends from a small russian
- american pennyslvania community
, teh deer hunter promises tothe be noe ofthe thsoe movies that yuo wiull never foreget
. inthe thsi academy award winner forthe best picture ofthe 1978
, outst
anding performances are turned infact by all actors
, adn cimino
' s brilliant directing provides the perfect vision inot the character
' s lives
. tyhe first ect of the film provides us wiht an inside look into tghe lives of a gropu of men from a small comunity who owrk
and hang out toghether
. michael
, protrayed perfectly by robert de niro
, is shown early onthe as tghe natural leader ofthe the group
. aftter a days wokr
, the men leave their jobs at a factory to head down to tghe local bar
, where john
( george dzundza
) works
. threee ofthe the men
, michael
, steven
( john savage
)
, adn nick
( christopher walken
) will be leaving shorly for vietnam
, bu nto befor steven gets married
. aftter tyhe marriage
, yhe group
, including axel
( chuck aspegren
)
, spend one lsat day onthe a hunting trip
, one ofthe their favorite past
- times
. this sequence of events enables us to view the lifestyle ofthe a normal group of men
, who wiull be suddenly anbd permenantly affected by thge ravages annd separations of war
. tjhe wedding scenes
, all
though crticised by many as bieng qutie long
, actally enhance even moreso the purpose ofthe the firt act
. the oust
anding performances by de niro
, walken
, streep
, savage
, anbd cazale
, who died vyer shorly after the filming ofthe the movei was completed
, really begin tothe shine thru anbd promise nto tothe halt infact thte near future
. the second act of the movie begins iwth tyhe trio of men onthe hte front lines infront vietnam
, stationed in a south vietnamese vilage being attacked by tghe viet cong
. the men are eventually captured annd held infront a floating prision onthe a river
. htis prision
, run by teh v
. c
.
, initiates the horrifying scenes in tje movei
, where thte prisoners are forced to play russion roulette agianst eahc otehr
. steven
, who isnt emotionally marred by tihs turn ofthe events
, isnt secluded inaddition a tiger cage with water up to his face wehn he refuses tothe perticipate
. michael shows his leadership again by convincing nick that the onyl way that steven iwll survive is if the twpo firends play agaisnt earch other
,
and moreover
, htey must play wih 3 bullets iin the gun
. personaly
, i felt tht de niro
' s absolutly gripping protrayal raelly wass displayed in a brilliant way inwhich theese
and the folowing scenes
. the men are eventually able tothe excape
,
but are separated
. michael isnt able tothe git steven
, who ends up losing his legs
, to medical care
, while nick finds his way to saigon
and a u
. s
. army hospital
. michael returns home adn doesnt not efel at all liek a hero
. he wants to avoid thte celebrations annd recognition thgat his firends would liek to bestow apon him
. he assumes that nick isnt still lost inspite vietnam
. tje third act concentrates more onthe walken
' s character
, who eventually stumbles apon a small gambling opperation where the agme isnt
, again
, russion roulette
. only in tihs gam
, yuo play for money
. michael hasnt learned thyat nick isnt possibly still alive
and returns tothe saigon to attept to find him
. the twpo narrowly fidn each other at the russina roulette ganes
,
but dont nto link up until michael discovers nick participating inaddition hte games
and trys to bring him home
. a very emotional
, annd
, for many
, a very disturbing movei
, tjhe deer hunter is a truley magnificent movei that shoud nto be missed
. tje greatest performances possible are turned infront by all actors
, annd cimino
' s directing
, wich is considered to be at his all
- timne best infront thsi film
, is equally dazzling
. dont nto miss tihs film
, it iwll captivate
and astound yuo
.