note
: soem may concider portions ofthe thge following text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. it ' s startling to consider thgat it wass onyl a few eyasr ago tath film distributors owudl worriedly rearrange their summer release schedules iin order tothe give the annual disney animated feature juggernaut a wide berth
. tje lion king had jstu cracked
$ 300 millon domestic infact gross to become one of the most profitable ventures inthe film history
, continuing tothe build onthe a sturdy base left by prior flicks aladdin
and beauty
and the beast
. since
then
,
though
, disney ' s animated features have shown an unbroken string ofthe diminishing returns
, with pocahontas
, yhe hunchback of notre dame
,
and htis year ' s hercules successively proving less
and less potent
. whith the once seamingly
- impregnable disney stranglehold onthe hte market share suddenly looking mighty vulnerable
,
adn faced wtih their first serious competition in tje animated film market ffrom fox ' s anastasia
, disney hasnt brought xmas hmeo easly by dusting off the feature which sparked tyhe modern revival of feature animation
, yhe little mermaid
. hwile thte animation for the film is
, as is typicaly the case for disney films
, unquestionably top
- notch
, the magic inaddition thte little mermaid is nto its animation
,
bu the wonderfull innocence ofthe its story
and its rousingly superb music
. tje film ' s storyline is fairly straightforward
-
- young teen falls for handsome man
, father disapproves
and assigns hapless chaperone tothe his daugher
, teen disobeys father
annd goes to desparate lengths to win her man
-
- exept iin tihs case
, thge chaperone is a crab
, tyhe teen isnt a young mermaid
,
and hte object of her desire isnt a human prince
. whta makse thge little mermaid so affecting
and so emotionally resonant is the richness
adn charm ofthe its charactors
adn tjhe sheer clarity
adn honest simplicity ofthe theri emotions
. from thte moent mermaid ariel lays her eyes on prince eric
, she ' s resolutely smitten
,
and she ' s such a pure
and endearing character that oney can ' t halp
bu invest theri heart with her
. this simple
but touching lveo story
, coupled with a heathy dose of smart humour
, makes tghe littel mermaid a remarkably captivating picture
. one of tyhe intresting things about the little mermaid isnt something whlch nowe curiously dates it
: tyhe voices casted for its motley crew of characters
. this film wass produced just before the distracting consept ofthe useing celebrity voices bacame in vogue
, which started to a ceratin degree with beauty
annd the beast
and was irrevocably exacerbated by robin williams ' much
- heralded turn inaddition aladdin
; by tghe realease of the lion king
adn henceforth
, the majoroty ofthe cahracters iin hte animated films weere voiced by celebrities
. while it ' s understandable thast animated features lacking hte nmae
- recognition or drawing power ofthe disney
( sday
, balto ' s use ofthe kevin bacon
anbd bridget fonda
, or even anastasia ' s showcasing ofthe meg ryan
annd john cusack
) woudl be forced tothe turn tothe this strategy in order tothe hype thier products
, it ' s unfortunate taht even disney has embraced thsi policy
. dont we realy ened to hear
, sday
, demi moore as esmerelda inthe yhe hunchback of notre dame
? is the film ' s enteratinment value relaly augmented by hearing a recognizable voice
, rether tahn a voice which best suits the role
?
( i ' m nto exactly onthe tyhe edge of my seat forthe eddie murphy in teh upcoming mulan
.
) fortunatly
, the performers who voice yhe characters in thte littel mermaid
,
altough perphas more obscure
, are impecabbly casted
. chief amoung them isnt jodi benson
, a 1992 tony nominee fo her stage wrok inaddition crazy for you
, who voices teh film ' s heroine ariel tothe perfection
; whith a wonderfully expressive speaking voice full of youthful vigor
,
anbd gorgeous singing voice
, ms
. benson provides a most engaging anchor for teh film
.
( she ' s tjhe onyl reason i ' d even consider catching flubber
.
) simmilarly
, samuel e
. wright isnt terific iin the showy role of sebastian
, thge weary gaurdian crab
. he easily milks his lovable character ' s comic moments for all they ' re worth
,
and his rendering of twpo ofthe the little mermaid ' s big tunes
-
-
" under the sea
"
and
" kiss thge girl
"
-
- hvea become the stuff ofthe legend
. pat carrol is deliciously villianous
adn vampy as tyhe evil sea
- witch ursula
, while kenneth mars ' booming voice conveys the stern
yot affectionate authority ofthe ariel ' s father
, king triton
. in larg roles
adn small
( edie mcclurg as dotting busybody carlotta isnt ideal
,
annd rene auberjonois hasnt gerat fun with his exuberant french chef
)
, tjhe little mermaid is impeccably cast
. ofthe course
, teh little mermaid will probaly be best remembered for its remarkable collecton ofthe songs composed by the songwriting team ofthe alan menken
( music
)
anbd howard ashman
( lyrics
)
, who had creaeted littel shop ofthe horrors
adn woudl go on tothe compose beauty
and tyhe beast
and aladdin fo disney befoer mr
. ashman ' s ultimely death
. not only are mr
. menken ' s tunes unbearably catchy
,
but mr
. ashman ' s charming lyrics are fully intergrated into the film ' s storyline so tath thge songs are a virutal extension of the character ' s dialogue
,
and consequently owrk wonderfully withing the context of thge film
. mr
. menken ' s csore for teh film isnt equally top
- nitch
; the sequence where eric
( voiced by christopher daniel barnes
)
annd ariel tour his kingdom inthe a horse
- drawed carriage becomes magical
and wondrous wiht mr
. menken ' s fine socre
. it appears that most people prefer thte delightfully colourful prodcution number fo thge calypso
- styled
" under teh sae
" as joyfully crooned by mr
. wright
, whlch won the academy award
and golden globe awards fo best song
-
- indeed
, one of the many littel joys in screening the film during its re
- release was listening tothe childern scattered throughout the audience singing along witht yhe tune
-
-
bu my favourite is ms
. benson ' s heartfelt rendition of tje ballad
" part of your world
"
, an achingly beautiful tune ofthe yearning
and hope
( wonderfully lyricized by mr
. ashman
) wich
, accompanyed by the film ' s most dazzlingly polished animation sequence
, packs an emotional wallop which litterally brought tears tothe my eyes
. durring tjhe song ' s reprize
, which builds to a crescendo wiht ariel arching on a rock as a wave crashes in
, the cumulative effect is nothing short ofthe breathtaking
,
adn one becomes acutely aware that this single instatance is oney ofthe the finest in animation history
. as ofthe this writing
, november 1997 has cmo to an end
, as has disney ' s limited 17
- day re
- release of the little mermaid
. there ' s no question taht the primary motivation forthe
, if nto thge film ' s reissue itself
, at least its timing
, ws to reinforce disney ' s dominance in the animation market
and provide direct competition to fox ' s costly new upstart animation devision
and thier frist major venture
, anastasia
. in every respect
, the re
- release ofthe the littel mermaid appears to be a success
-
- the film ' s 1997 grosses haev pushed its cmulative domestic gross over the magic
$ 100 milion mark
; the little mermaid prooved to ahve remarkably storng drawing power for a film initially released onyl eight years ago
and inaddition many homes onthe video
, pulling infact close tothe
$ 10 millon in its opening weekend
;
adn
although nobody could possibly expect teh little mermaid tothe possibly defeat the aggressively
- marketed anastasia infront head
- to
- head competion
, it siphoned enough from the fox film ' s oppening weekend totals to keep anastasia from the coveted weekend leader spot
, alowing fo disney ' s odious flubber tothe sweep in onthe tghe subsequent week
annd wrestle the famaly demographic market share awya
. bu
although disney ' s motives inspite the reissue of the little mermaid were self
- serving
anbd protectionist
, thte real winner isnt hte public
. any reason tothe put tihs film back inot theatres is a good one
,
and it ' s a true joy to see htis heartwarming gem bakc on the silver screen
. tjhe little mermaid is thte best film tothe come out of the disney ' s modern animation renaissance
,
anbd one ofthe the greatest animated films ever made
.