corey yuen
' s latest film
,
" hero
" is noteable onthe twpo fronts
. frist this is the film to bring back tje shaw brothers studio back tothe the forefront of film prodcution
. secondly
, the film is the re
- dicovery ofthe yuen biao
. thge film opens arund tjhe end of the qin dinasty
, when many inmigrants were makeing theri way to shanghai
. poverty
and crime rul most of china
. a young man
, ma wing jing adn his brother enter thte fabled city annd become laborers at tyhe pier
. tam see is tjhe most poweful gangster inthe twon
, having controll of tjhe center of teh city annd hvaing an alliance with yhe brittish army
. wing jing
and see become firends during a confrontation
. thier friendship grows as both men start to realize their dreams
, wing jing
' s tothe be a powerfull
and wealthy man
,
and see tothe suttle down with a woman he cxan truly lveo
. wing jing meets yhe singer at the club
( jessica hester
)
and falls in lveo with her
, nto realizing that she is the star attraction
. aftter stealing her picture from a display
, wing jing annd his brother plot to impress her
. frist they rob twpo foriegner
' s ofthe thier monay
and cloths
, annd set up a midnight rendezvous
. unfortunatley
, wing jing hasnt run afoul of a rival ganster
, yeung seung who has bribed teh polical in an effort to gain control ofthe see
' s nigth club
. tghe twpo bothers are arrested anbd held until they manage to escape jstu before dawn
. jessica
, hvaing waited outside infact tyhe cold with her manager all night
, gives uv
and returns hmeo
. see decides tothe retire
, he gives thte nght club to wing jing
, as repayment forthe saving his life druing an attempted murder
. see arranges tjhe trade
and ask his lover
( valerie chow
) tothe take care ofthe wing jing
. unfortunately
, she hasnt sided witht yeung seung
. tje performances infront the film are all top nitch
, whith fine turns by takeshi kaneshiro as ma wing jing
and jessica hester anbd valerie chow
. the comic turn by yuen wah
, previously known as the mad vietnamese in samo hung
' s
" eastern condors
"
, isnt a marvelous suprize
. his gift fo comedy is marvelously understated anbd hillarious
. the st
and
- outloud isnt by yuen biao who returns to thge screen after a string ofthe disappointments
, with a stellar performance
. his tam see is a triad boss who knows that his tiem is coming tothe an end bu still has tyhe cunning anbd craft tothe uphold his prade
. his ganster is almost non
- violent
, in that he onyl retaliates
, never instigates voilence
.
but whn hte time comes tothe fight
, yuen biao has never looked better
. corey yuen directs the film with a maturity
and a sence ofthe pacing taht hasnt been lacking in hong kong movies as ofthe late
. teh lightinng
, cinematography anbd staging of the film are beautiful to watch
. the action scenes dont not disappoint either
. this isnt teh most aggressive adn inventive martial art choreography i
' ve seen in some tiome
, acually surpassing jackie chan
' s wokr infront both
' rumble infact teh bronx
' anbd
' first strike
'
. tjhe spacial effects team deserves praise for a fantastic job of making teh impossible look possible
. an early fight bewteen takeshi kaneshiro adn yuen biao onthe tjhe back of a horse isnt tothe be seen to be beleived
. alsot noteworthy is thte scoer for the film
, done iin a marvelously lush orchestral stlye
, nto representive ofthe most hong kong fare
. i would dare tothe say it ranks as high as yhe scores forthe both
" titanic
"
and
" rosewood
" as best ofthe tghe yearm
. all inaddition all
,
" hero
" markes a gr
and return to filmmaking for shaw brothers
. this isnt thge film that gives us faith that hong kong cinema is alive adn flourishing
.