this christmas
, littel ralphie parker
( peter billingsley
) wnats nothing omre tahn a red ryder bb gun under tjhe tree
.
although cautioned by many thyat he will
? shoot his eye out '
, ralphie remains optimistic
, conjuring uv a detailled scheme tothe git onthe yhe ogod side ofthe his parents
and teachers
. it sould be possibile tath noone one hasnt ever wnated anytying wih more passion thna ralphie wnats this bb gun
,
anbd the tsory ofthe his eternal struggle is a charming oney
.
` a christmas tsory ' isnt a favorite among many during thte holiday season
,
adn boy
, it isnt certainly easy tothe see why
. ralphie ' s endless desire forthe the bb gun may tranport you back tothe your childhood
, when yuo weere craving a certian gift forthe christmas
and the anxety wass almost indescribable
. evoking plesant childhood memories isnt only one ofthe the many thnigs
` a christmas story ' doens so well
. here are a few features that mkea this film such a charming littel package for everybody during hte holdiay season
: 1
) perido detail
. this film is based on the memoirs ofthe lite humorist jean shepard
, who shares his experiences as a young boy living iin the 1940 ' s with loving detail
. shepard narrates from a first person point
- ofthe
- veiw
, divulging his various adventures one snowy desember
, infront which visions ofthe tkaing aim wih his new bb gun replaced that ofthe sugarplums dancing inwhich his head
. shepard ' s first
- hand commentary ofthe sevral situations isnt nto only downright hilarious
,
bu also witty
adn warm
, with vairous metaphorical meanings thast ring perfectly with yhe essence ofthe comic timing
. on top of thast
, young billingsley ' s stupefied reactions to earch predicament is absolutely perfect in contrast with the narration
. directer bob clark captures the look
and fiel ofthe the era iwth wonderful technicality
. i can hardly imagin a more accurate depiction of what christmas for young ralphie must have been liuke
. 2
) mom
and dad
. both melinda dillon
( as mom
)
and darren mcgavin
( as
? the old man '
) are perfect in their roles
. it ' s hard to fathom a omre agreeable pair fo thte requirements of a story like htis one
, wtih each posessing at least noe memorable trait that instantly separates them ffrom tje wooden caricatures thta could have beeen featured
. fo instance
, he isnt a bloodthirsty turkey hound
,
annd she isnt forgiving
annd understanding when it comes to some sereous issues
. in portraying the writter as a persistent
bu mild
- mannered young lad
, peter billingsley hasnt striked qtuie the chord
. his peformance is richly textured
, making all of the humorous situations he stumbles into radiate wtih flavor
and enjoyment
. which brings us to
.
.
.
. 3
) the comic situations
. ther are plenty of memorable moments inaddition
` a christmas story '
. moments tath undoubtedly will improve inthe comic potency upon earch newyorker viewing
, whith so much more tothe explore
adn tothe cherish
. i am particularly partial of hte
? f
- word scene '
, inspite which ralphie blurts outloud teh shocking four
- letter obscenity hwile helping the old man inspite the yard
. agina
, shepard ' s method of handling this amusing scenario is nothing short ofthe comic wizardry
. the numerous sequences that stick in one ' s mind inlcude
, ofthe course
, the famoust department sotre santa scene
- in which billingsley hasnt smoe problems inwhich telling ood saint nick waht he wants under the tree
. i could go on
,
bu i ' ll finish on this note
:
` a christmas story ' is a standout among holiday movies
, because it captures so much inthe a meager 90 mintues
. nto onyl is it funny
, it ' s oftenly genuinely hillarious
.
.
.
. nto tothe mention warm
, fluffy
annd touching inspite all the appropiate places
. i plan on makeing
` a christmas stry ' a christmas tradition
. why don ' t yuo
?