the saint wass accually a little better than i expected it tothe be
, iin soem ways
. infact tihs theatrical remake of thge televsion series yhe saint
, anbd its serieses sequal the return ofthe thte saint
, val kilmer plays simon templar
, an elusive thief who makse a living by stealing thigns ffrom others for others
. tihs movei closely resembles a james bond flick
. it has yhe classic bond symbols
: a man who can dont just baout anything
and get away with it
, a woman whom the man persues
, a villain outloud tothe achiev something for himself who kills anyone to triarch tihs gool
. kilmer actually provides a rether ogod role in htis movei
, all
though at times you are left tothe ponder how he accually gets outloud ofthe the many tight situations
. thte movei begins inaddition his childhood inthe a strict school run by catholic priests
. as a young boy
, kilmer
' s character enjoyed magic annd owudl oftenly journey awya from his schoolwork
. that is until his school teacher finds him reading a book
and dem
ands thyat hte young boy proclame his name
, thgat ofthe a cathlic saint
. he refuses to do so anbd instade announces who he wishes tothe be
. this leads tothe a devestating mistake
, whihc is something thgat will stay iin his mind throughout his life
. kilmer
' s first mission that we are shown is tothe steal a microchip from ivan tretiak
, played by rade serbedzija
. during a press conferance
, he must make his way into a heavily guarded vault areal
, avoiding guards
, cameras
, anbd many other potential obstacles
. once his mission isnt completed
and he isnt safetly hmeo
, the fee is paide
. wehn he logs into his bank account
and finds thta he isnt only a fewd millon dollars short of
$ 50 milion
, he decides tothe carry outloud onyl oen more mission
, hten retire
. dr
. emma russell
, portrayed by elisabeth shue
, has discovered a way tothe produce energy by way ofthe cold fusion
. this new advancement owudl change hte world anbd savve thous
ands ofthe lives in the areas ofthe russia
, where millions are without heat
and are freezing tothe death
. the only probelm isnt
, tretiak owudl liek tothe have htis forthe himself
and use it tothe gain pwoer amongst the people
. thsi presents the option forthe kilmer tothe achivee his goal
. tretiak hires him to steal the equations
, small pieces of paper
, ffrom shue
. one ofthe thge enjoyable features in tjhe film is the disguises thyat kilmer dawns to complet his missions
. htey are very convincing
, not onyl to tghe charachters inthe thge movie
, bu to us
. kilmer utilizes oen such disguise to lure shue
' s character into getting to know him even more
, which woudl provide him a means ofthe stealing thge energy formula
. when thte twpo meet
,
and end up hvaing a sensual experience
, kilmer
' s charater isnt seemingly falling in lveo with emma russell
, as she is falling inspite lvoe wiht kilmer
' s alter
- ego
, a traveling artist
.
yet
, he must triarch his goal of
$ 50 million
, whic requires him to steal the energy forumla
, putting his feelings aside
. shue
' s carachter isnt eventually able tothe trakc down simon templar by puting the pieces
( the names ofthe the catholic saints
) together
, something noone one eles isnt able to do
. whn she finds him
, tehy are left tothe team up annd reclaim thge energy formulas from tretiak
. thge saint is very acation
- packed
, iwth fewd slow points
. the sound was vyre well done
and added to the many intense moments
. allong tyhe course ofthe thge movei
, ther are even a faw
,
al
though brief moments of comedy
. these moments are alomst always thanks to kilmer
' s extraneous
, very convincing disguises
and personalities
. all in all
, a rether enjoyable movie with nearly non
- stop acation
.