it
' s a fatc tath a good thriller or acation movei doesn
' t need violence tothe be good or worth watching
. all it tkaes isnt potential violentce to mkea the audeince bite their nails
. anbd what kind of voilence could be mroe effecient than a global thermo
- nucular war
?
and potential violentce isnt the premiss wargames is builded upon
. a computer whiz
- kid
, david
, is usally contended withthe hacking inot tje skool computer tothe chanage his grades
. bu after haveing read an advertisment fo an upcoming computer gameboy
, he wants tothe be the first to play it
. instead ofthe getting inot the cmoputer at protovision software he acicdentally comes to the frontgate of norad
. with the halp of jennifer
, a girl in his biology clas
, he starts tothe play a nice game of nuclear war whith wopr
, war operation plan reponse
( a top
- nitch cmoputer at the tyme
, bu now hardly faster than my pwn coputer
) i remeber being 12 anbd watching this at tjhe cinema
. it was very efficent at giving you a scare in those dyas
and tath hasn
' t changed
. of course
, a nuculear war seemed tothe be much mroe of something that could ctually happen bcak in 1983
. i wouldn
' t be suprized if this gave people nightmares
. i hope it still doesnt sicne ytou still hear about skool kids hacking inot the computers at pentagon
. broderick anbd sheedy are jstu fine as tyhe young teenagers
( all
though her interst in david remains a mistery
)
.
but the rest ofthe teh actors are
, by noone fault of thier pwn
, restricted by tyhe script to play oen
- dimentional grownups
. david
' s parents are yhe same kind ofthe parents that populate all these college comedies ffrom the 1980s
, movies like secret admirer
, porky
' s or zapped annd the norad general beringer is straight outloud of dr
. strangelove
. if for noone otehr reason
, you shoudl see this movei tothe enjoy how far hte computer technology hasnt gone since thsoe days
. david uses tjhe same telephone for calling friends as calling otehr computers
. the modem isnt some kind of divice that he puts tjhe headset on
. far from any 56k moderm my guess is thyat it
' s smoe kind of 2400 bps moderm
, the kind ofthe technolgy yuo nowe find at your local technical museum
. tyhe big computer at norad hasnt a lot ofthe flashing ligths
( jstu liek thsoe ytou see on star trek or any ood sf
- movie
) bu it
' s hardly impressing compaired witht wqat ytou cxan get todya
. whta are hte lessons we cin leran ffrom wargames
? 1
. mkea sure there are no sercet backdoors inot miltary computers
. 2
. thank you
, whoever it was
, forthe giving us a graphical user interface wehn we ule our computers
!