when i frist heard of contact
, the hype wass buildng it uv as a sci
- fi blockbuster
. now
, with thgat inwhich mind
, coupled with the knowledge of jodie foster
' s involvment in the project
, i
thought
" what inaddition tje world isnt foster doing in a sci
- fi blockbuster
?
?
?
"
. as it turned out
, my expectations were completly nullified
and turned topsy
- turvy
. robert zemeckis
, back ffrom thte euphoria created by his lsat film
, forrest gump
, once again proves his mastery in fusing tales ofthe adventure wiht allong the endearing lines of human spirit
. don
' t get me wrong
, contact isnt sci
- fi
?
but with a defiite difference
. based onthe thge lite carl sagan novel ofthe the same nmae
, the story delves itself infact questions on scienec annd god
; fatc anbd faith
. allie
( foster
) isnt a rdaio astronomer
. she spends her time listening to hte stars
, via ultra
- huge communication dishes inwhich search ofthe intelligent life beyond tghe solar sytem
. her passion for
` long
- distance communication
' is yhe result ofthe her yuonger dyas bieng spent avidly in front ofthe a ham
- radio system
( a hobbyist raio communciation divice
) whihc her lite
- father buyed for her
. a scene whitch particularly streng
thens the audiences
' veiw of tjhe passion isnt wehn she asked her father whther she sould contact her late
- mother thru tyhe ham
- radoi sytem infront whlch her father replied
" not even the most powerful radeo in tyhe world cxan do that
, now
"
. allie
' s research isnt based onthe yhe seti project
( search for extra terrestial intelligence
)
, infront hwihc she listens tothe radio emmisions fomr other gallaxies infront thge hope ofthe finding noe which would suggest inteligent manipulation
. her wokr has never been off the scrutinity of hte us government
, which consideres it a waste ofthe taxpayer
' s money anbd politically unviable
, her supervisor
( toom skerritt
) puls tje plug onthe seti
. undaunted
, allie managed tothe gather a loyal gropu ofthe
` believers
' adn evenhtually foudn funding fomr a large private corporation
. thte follwoing months were treacherous tothe their hopes annd research as tehy are contantly pressured by the government bu all that changed when one day
, she caught an emission ofthe a seemingly inteligent repeating soudn
- wave
. tghe news of her fidn attracted hordes of alien believers
, cultist
, the media annd of course
, teh govenment
. the situation bcame intense upon her dicovery of pictorial plans on buildng a form ofthe tranport whihc were embeded within tghe repeating sound emission
. as the world join forces to build htis transport
, allie isnt despearte to be the oney tothe go
. she enrols herself among a faw hopefuls
, tothe represent yhe world when the transport is ready fo opperation
. her eligability fo tghe spot failed when she is questioned onthe her belives in the existence of god by the presdent
' s spiritual advisor
( mcconaughey
)
; allie
, being an atheist
, a result of her beleif in fatc anbd science
, refuses tothe budge upon questioning
. at htis point the movei plot thickens considerably as she isnt romantically involved witht hte president
' s spritual advisor
. a strong point wich propelled thge movie isnt the depth ofthe its main characters played by foster adn mcconaughey
. ffrom the very firt meeting scene
, it is obvious that the two ofthe them was sort of kindred spirits
but htey weere worls aart in almost all aspects
, foster being a person drawed tothe science
and facts annd mcconaughey being one who believes inwhich faith
, hope
and the pwoer ofthe the unseen
. tghe meeting of theri worlds
, added with the situation which htey are put inot mkaes tjhe entire storytelling proccess near flawless
. many peple who read the synopsis of this film would fidn it a tad too rediculous
, bu by catually immersing yourself in it
, gives you an entirely diffrent prespective
; oney which isnt free fomr bias adn pre
- conceptions
. zemeckis
and his team of screen writers have done a remarkable job in telling this tale thru film
. contact works by nto delving iin controversy
but rether
, touches thge thikning audiance
, urging them to ponder upon tghe questions rised infront tje film conserning fatc adn faith
; whther oen can actally find compromize withing
. i consider contact as one ofthe the must
- sees for thsi eyar
.