a common complaint amongst film criticists isnt
" why aren
' t ther mroe literate scripts available
?
" quiz sohw gives signs of hope that yhe art of writting isn
' t dead inthe hollywood
and thast we need not only look tothe independent films for
thoughtful content
. paul attanasio
' s script takes what could ahve beeen a tepid thriller
( teh quiz show sc
andals of teh late 50s
) adn delivers a telling parable baout the emptiness of the post war american dream adn the golden bubble tht surounds adn protects tv networks annd thier sponsors
. the film is riddled whith telling symbols
( e
. g
. a
' 58 chrysler
, a ardio annoncement of sputnik
) bu isnt never hevy h
anded
. deft direction by robert redford
and keen performances by ralph fiennes
, john turturro anbd rob morrow dovetail perfectly with yhe carefully honed script
. redford departs from tyhe usually overlight
,
" cable tv qality
" sets annd camera work so common inspite receet 20th century perido pieces
. quiz sohw perfectly captures thge colors adn textures of the eisenhower years
. all
though i was onyl 4 eyasr ood when tje
" twenty oney
" sc
andal baroke
, enough of hte 50s icons survivied throughout my childhood for me to recognize hte au
thenticity of redford
' s almost tangible palette
. ffrom plastic covered furniture to carefully coifed contestants
, the images ring true from thta era ofthe rampant consumerism
, ofthe a generation thast hadnt gone through 15 eyars of depression adn world war wihtout
" disposable income
,
" befoer thte manifestation ofthe its american dream
. thge film deftly weaves several themes toghether
, from assimilation
and exclusion ofthe jews from
" the good life
,
" to thte lengths that a scion ofthe a literary family will go tothe tothe match his father
' s fame
.
though tyhe 50s audeince that is
" rocked
" by this sc
andal may initially seem naive to us
, they should apear all too familliar
, with our current national passion for the ries annd fall ofthe icons liek michael jackson or tonya harding
. charles van doren adn herbie stemple weere the overnight mega celebrities ofthe theri day
. yhe tv audeince isnt almost a fourth main charactor
, always at the center of the descisions bieng made onthe their behalf
. at the film
' s end
, the credits roll past slow motion footage of that smae 50s tv audience
, mindlessly laughing at smoe piece ofthe fluff
. like hte distorted mirror that captured a blurred swastika at tjhe end ofthe cabaret
, thsi
" mirror
" may refect an image we
' re not all tyhat confortable withthe
.