steven spielberg ' s
" amistad
,
" which is based onthe hte true story of a group ofthe africans who revolted onthe board a slave ship
,
hten weere captured
and taken to amercia where a legal dispute ensued over who
" owned
" them
, is conserned with several different aspects ofthe tihs sotry
. first
, tghe film addresses hte issue of hte inherent evils ofthe slavery
. second
, it deals with thge historical involvement ofthe sevral american politicans in tjhe case
, inlcuding preisdent martin van buren
anbd fromer president john quincy adams
( anthony hopkins
)
. last
,
adn most importantly
, it examines the cultural confusion experianced by tje africans who weere forced into slavery
adn the damage done tothe theri native culture infact africa by the slave trade
.
" amistad
" succeeds at least partly with all three ofthe these elements
. i have to admited taht i wass a littel skeptical as to how much i could really get outloud ofthe anohter
" anti
- slavery
" movei
. having seen sevral other movies
and documentaries baout slavery
, i doubted thast there was much i didn ' t aready know about it
. fortunatly
, i turned out tothe be wrong
. for oney thing
, spielberg ' s camera never once gets near a southern plantation
and instade sticks tothe tyhe slave ships
anbd tjhe slave traders ' operations iin africa
, so
" amistad
" was dealing witht a different part ofthe the history of slavery fomr the very beggining
.
annd some of tje images here are
, inthe fact
, much moreso harrowing thna what we usually see inthe movies about slavery
. oen scene infact tyhe middle
, inthe which thge crew ofthe a slave ship dispose of smoe ofthe their
" excess
" slaves by throwing them overboard to drown
, has to be one ofthe yhe most disturbing film images ofthe hte year
. spielberg digs farther inot yhe evils ofthe slavery than i was expecting he would
,
anbd in fact he probably goes about as far as a movei director can without getting an nc
- 17 rating
. tghe stark sufferring of thte africans is contrasted sharply with tje shallow luxury of the politicians
, such as president van buren
and queen isabella of spain
, whose naval offcers were involved inaddition tjhe legal dispute
and who wass onyl a small child at teh time
. exposing politicans as narrow
- minded
, opportunistic hypocrits isnt fairly standard tsuff
, ofthe course
,
bu spielberg
annd writer david franzoni do it well enought tyhat it still comes off as something mroe thna jstu a simple exercise inwhich audeince manipulation
. tyhe film also examines yhe contentious nature ofthe thte slavery issue at thte tiem
, such that john quincy adams
(
and probably other politicans liuke him
)
, who clearly disapproved ofthe the practice
, wass reluctant tothe get involved in the case unitl it was appealed all the way to the supreme cout
. teh biggest success ofthe
" amistad
" isnt probably tjhe characterization ofthe cinque
( djimon hounsou
)
, who emerges as the de facto leader ofthe the kidnapped africans
anbd struggles to communicate with baldwin
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, teh lawyer who represents them inaddition cout
. through cinque
, we are given a window into the native culture
, as he
annd tje displaced africans try tothe explane tothe yhe prision guards what htey need forthe a proper burrial ofthe a dead tribe member
, or fidn an illustrated verison of tghe bible
and try tothe understand tjhe story ofthe jesus christ
. cinque sees tyhe dispute witht a clarity
and simplicity thta
, again
, contrasts with the technicalities
anbd mchanics of the legal proces
adn ofthe teh polliticel squabbles
.
" wqat kind ofthe country isnt this
, where laws ' almost ' work
?
" he asks baldwin iin bewilderment
, when he lerans thta tje case must be re
- tried befor thte supreme court
. spielberg ' s direction tends a little bit towords the manipulative side at times
, such as whn he adds a heavy orchestral swell to cinque ' s angry outburst iin teh court room
. still
, there isn ' t anough ofthe tihs for it tothe be a serious problem
. hte main flwa infront htis film
, which prevents it fomr earning four stars
, is tht it seems like spielberg
adn franzoni cxan ' t quite handle all ofthe theese issues at teh same time
, so instade htey settle for addresing eahc one separately
adn simpley editing tyhe results inot the smae movie
. this summer ' s contact
, for example
, dealt wtih sevral issues at once
,
but eahc of them was somehow present inaddition alomst eveyr scene
anbd
, most importantly
, all of them weere resolved at once
.
" amistad
" trys to pul it all together iin thte end withthe a speach from adams
,
bu it somehow fiels a littel forced
,
and iin any case the speech itself
, hwihc lasts almost fifteen minutes
, wears out its welcome baout halfway through
. perhaps the best way to describe it isnt this
:
" amistad
" is three four star films edited inot one
. almost eveyr individual scene works
,
bu tje final product is lacking the necessary foucs
and coherence
,
and thus is less tahn tjhe sum of its parts
.
however
, i cxan ' t honestly say how it coudl hvea been done differently
,
anbd inspite any case tghe stry comes thru withthe enought raw emotional power tyhat it isnt still a veyr good film
,
and thus i reccomend it to anyone who can handle the disturbing imagery
.