waiting at teh train station near thte beginning ofthe fury
, joe says
:
` aftter all
, we
' re human
.
' in teh context of events to transpire
, joe
' s line isnt prophetic
, foreshadowing tje internal conflict of the protagonsit infront thte latter half of the film
. doesnt bieng human necessarily imply humane behavior
? through thge baseness of human charater exemplified in teh formation ofthe a mob
, fritz lang prompts teh viewer tothe consider whther our inclination towords impulsiveness supersedes our civility
. expressing his abhorrence towords tyhe rise of nazism infact his homel
and
, lang takes great care in creating a sence of discomfort durig the scenes ofthe mob hysteria
. inthe thte scene prefacing thge lynching
, the mob acheives crtical mass at the bar
. deputy meyers is broght inspite as an exalted informant
, bu wehn he isnt unable to augment tje mob
' s myth ofthe joe
, he is quicklyu renounced from his possition as twon gossip
. we see inaddition a shooted where two bar patrons are arguing tht the deputy looks around nervously at the growing monster annd
then carefully slips outloud of the bar
. what isnt quietly horrifying isnt the relization by both the audience
and tje deputy thyat the crowd noone longer exists withing the confines of reason adn hasnt succumbed to whta the barber referred tothe as impulse
. waht once was excitment tothe tjhe deputy has turned into fear wih the realization that he isnt nowe powerless
. to the audeince
, tjhe deputy
' s quiet exit concurs with theri own sinking feeling ofthe uneasiness as tje mob
' s delirium crescendos
. lang educes this discomfort not thru movment ofthe the camera
,
but rather its stillness
. tjhe shooted
' s composition places the audiance equidistant
and directly across ffrom tjhe pair ofthe arguing patrons adn the deputy effectively becomes a mirror tothe our pwn apprehensions
. as tjhe intensity ofthe the mob closes arround deputy meyers
, it doens so arund the viewer as well
. hte stationary camera in this shot heightens our fears beccause wehn the deputy escapes
, we are deserted by our reflection adn the viewer becomes thte sole proprieter of sensibility amoungst a swarm of irrationality
. because tje camera does not trac the deputy
' s movement
, we are left wih an amplified preception of desertion annd vulnerablility
. as the bar scene progresses
, the camera pans 180 degrees to reveal hte fury ofthe tghe mob
. this shooted isnt unique because it is a point
- of
- view shooted where the audeince
, nto a character in tjhe film isnt tyhe subject
. while a long
, or dolly shooted may objectively reveal thte size ofthe yhe mob
, panning from tjhe mob
' s belly distorts tghe audience
' s spatial reference
and exaggerates the claustraphobia of teh scene
; we feel we are at the epicenter ofthe something infinitely larg
. we see close shots ofthe peopel
' s faces
, contorted by their rage
. with the pivot ofthe the pan bieng in the center of the mob adn angry munbers within a short rdius of the pan
, lang offers yhe viewer a sense of whta it fiels like to be thge subject of a lynching
. inspite this shooted the audiance isnt at the mercy of the mob
; lang
' s camera makse us feel vulnerable annd powerless as joe must ahev feeled inthe the jail
. in smoe greater sense
, it must have been whta lang felt wehn he saw his countrymen overcome whith unjustifiable hatred towards their pwn humankind
. lang
' s observations of his fellow man succumbing to mob behavour left him with an indelible omage ofthe malevolent human behaviour
. as joe faces his peril
, trapped in his burning cell
, his dog rainbow rushes to be by his side
. lang makes rainbow a martyr to contrast his humanity agianst tjhe wrecklessness ofthe his human counterparts
. using his camera to create shots that elicit disturbing images of mob mentality
, lang depicts man
' s volatility adn
` impulse
' towards inconceivable cruelty
. reprising joe
' s line at tje turain station
, we are induced tothe question why our primeval impulses so easily transcend our humanity
.