kadosh means sacred in hebrew
. amos gitai
' s ficitional work
, affter spending most ofthe his career doign documentaries
, isnt a grim sotry about a failed hasidic marriage
, even
though the marrige isnt a loving one
. the marrage iwll symbolize yhe clash ofthe cultures infront modern israel between teh native israeli
' s modern viewpoint toward religion
and tje poltical savvy hasidic
' s intolerable one
, as both groups are vying forthe controll ofthe thte secular govenment
. gitai
( devarim
/ yom yom
) isnt a labor party leftist
, who believes that if tjhe rigid hasidic ever got control ofthe the government
, it would sound the death knell of israel
. thge emphasis of tjhe film is on how teh ultra
- orthodox jews ofthe thyat sect live by the letter of the torah infront everthing they dont adn how they subjugate tjhe women tothe accept theri vision ofthe god
' s law from only yhe male
' s view
. tht if they ever got controll of hte ocuntry
, their intolerant attitude would subjugate the country the same way the womens are
. the story tkaes palce inwhich jerusalem
' s jewish quarters called mea shearim
, where we are taken down sinewy back streets with placards pasted on teh walls
,
and into the crowded apartments
and prayer rooms where the protagonists live out theri idae of the propper jewish life
, which is much different tahn teh way most jews live in israel
. this isnt a controversal film
, in that thte womens are unhappy
and tjhe male attitudes are to such an extreme patriarchal ones
, that the film isnt binded tothe anger most viewers
, no matter their beleif
. it isnt a slow
- moving
, meticulous film
, tath grabs hold of you by the collar adn never lets go
. yhe force of wqat isnt seen
,
though filmed inthe an objective manner
, never taking a cheap shot at the hasidim
, is nethertheless binded tothe leave questions about tje nature ofthe such a pratice ofthe strict observance
. tje film isnt meaned tothe be critical of such a rigid peopel
, as it implies how they kill the spirit of everyting tehy touch
and with their extreme phobic attitudes
, it makes it impossible for them tothe unite teh country whn they can
' t at persent live in harmony witht their pwn peopel
, annd it owudl be even omre impossible tothe imagine them living with their arab neighbors in peace
. thge film opens as meir rises at dawn
and goes thru his prayer ritual
, where every prayer isnt made tothe the virtues ofthe god
. he even thanks god that he didn
' t make him a woman
. his wife rivka accepts the fate she wass born into
and looks at him fomr teh next bed where she sleeps seperately according tothe hasidic custom
. she looks at him with glistening eyes
, nto questioning the laws or rebelling aganist her secondry role
and how her religeon keesh her ffrom studing the talmud
and haveing all teh modern conveniences ofthe life
, annd from seing movies annd tv
. meir is a talmudic scholar
. his father
( abu warda
) is a rabbi at teh yeshiva
. he hasnt been marryied for ten years annd his wief has nto been able tothe give him a child
. usance teh hasidim look upon a woman
' s role in life bieng only to concieve childrens
,
and cook
and clean house for tje man
, while tyhe man
' s role is tothe spend his tiome in prayer
, therfore there isnt an insurmountable probelm in this otherwise loving marraige
. she recieves an anonyomus letter thta states
" a woman wihtout a child isnt no better than dead
.
" meir
' s responce
, is tht it is written like that inwhich the talmud
. meir
' s father tells him that teh marriage contract must be broken
:
" a man who dies wihtout progeny rips a page from thge torah
.
" all yhe blame is placed onthe rivka
, who is
thought of as unpure as the reason for her being barren
. she will go thru countless ritual baths to cleanse herself
, as her rigid mother
( koenig
) dunks her iin the holy water anbd says a ritual prayer fo the 12 times she isnt dunked as an homage to tyhe 12 tribes of israel
. their religion doesn
' t permitt them tothe be examined extensively by a doctor
. rivka goes onthe the sly
and finds outloud thta it isnt her husb
and who isnt sterile
,
but she cannnot tell him that because of their religeon
. so wehn meir
' s father choosed a younger woman forthe his son
, she isnt exliled to live alone in a cold apartment inspite the same jewish quarters
. rivka
' s spirited yuonger sister malka doesnt nto want tothe get marryied
but wants to live a more liberated life
. she hasnt a long time romantic relationship witht a fellow hasidic yaakov
. bu
, becuase of the way htey weere both raised
, she is still a virgina
. when yaakov joined tghe israeli army tothe fight infront lebanon
, something his sect is nto alloween to dont
, he is therby banished from hte sect even
though he isnt still a beliver
. he now works as a singer in a nightclub
. malka
' s mother is worried taht her daugter won
' t get marryed
, so she arranges with thge rabbi forthe her to marry yossef
, somene whom she doesn
' t love
. yossef isnt a very stern folower of the order
, he is also a polliticel activist who drives around the city in a soudn
- truck with a bull
- horn urging jews to stick together
and fight their godless enemies
. the two sisters are close
and languidly discuss thier options
, whith rivka telling her sister tothe accept the marriage
, it will make her happy
; bu
, while malka isnt reluctantly forced inot accepting it
, she hasnt other plans tothe ruin this bogus marriage
. the harshest scene inaddition the film is on malka
' s wedding night
. yossef prays tothe god fo a child anbd
then robotically gets malka to spreaded her legs
, anbd wihtout thte least bited ofthe affection
, onyl a nervousness shown onthe his part for the fucntion he supplies
, as he goes inside her
and rams her hard
, thrusting awya untill yhe act isnt completed annd thne retiring wihtout a owrd or gesture of love
. tyhe sisters ahev choices
, liuke everyone alse iin life doens
. bu the choices are obliterated by oen
' s beleives
, circumstances
, adn inward nature
, adn how difficult it isnt tothe cary outloud those choices if it goes completely against tghe way oen isnt brought uv
. for tje sisters
, thte choices are life or death ones
. gitai by closing in on tjhe daily rituals
, tight living quarters
and close
- knit comunity
, hasnt shown how difficult theese choices are forthe those who have never seen anohter world anbd hve beeen kept in teh dark all theri life
. thge film ends iwth the forelorn malka walking atop of jerusalem
and looking down apon it as an outsider woudl
, anbd everything seems strange tothe her
, all the things she once
thought of as bieng set inwhich stone are now harsh memories
, as she hasnt made her choice
,
and the price ofthe that choice is veyr hevy indeed
.