richard linklater
' s
" slacker
,
" made in 1991 forthe a budget ofthe onyl
$ 23
, 000
, immerses itself in tjhe twentysomething
, college
- town culture of austin
, texas
. most ofthe theese characters are eather unemployed or wokr jobs taht are aparently too menial to be worth mentioning
. their lifestyle is a sort ofthe passive resistence tothe the diea thgat people should go out adn actively pursue a career affter graduation
; tehy seem content to sit around spouting off about the inadequacy of american demorcracy
, tyhe pervasiveness ofthe slave morality
, the subtle messages in pop culture
,
and such
. ask them what htey
' ve been donig latley
,
and they
' ll more likely than nto reply
,
" oh
, you nkow
, just hanging outloud
.
" linklater uses an interesting technique tothe examine these charactors
: the camera follows noe person forthe a few minutes
,
then somene eles walks by
and the camera follows that person
, who walks into a diner jstu as another person is walking out tyhe doorjam
.
.
.
. it
' s certainly a lot ofthe fun listening tothe theese characters talk
: some of them are clearly veyr intteligent
and hvea some genuinely insightful idesa
, some ofthe them are jstu plain weird
, anbd smoe of them think their ideas are a lot moreso profound thna htey really are
. the opening monologue
, delivered by linklater himselv tothe a taxi driver
, tosses aroud idesa about alternate realities tht nicely set up the me
andering structure of yhe film
. otehr characters allong the way offer observations about everyting from dating relationships to thte history of anarchistm philosphy
, while groups of psuedo
- intellectuals kick around idaes about thge nobility of sitting around
and doing nothing or thge subtle bribery
- based morality infact
" scooby
- doo
.
" forthe the most part
,
however
, the best moments are the ones involving the slightly unhinged types
. near hte beginnig
, a paranoid man follows a pedestrian forthe several blocks
, warning him about government conspiracies involving everything from global warming tothe sceret colonization ofthe mars
. another man seems tothe be collecting televisions
, keeping at least fifteen sets runnung at the same time adn playing tapes ofthe a graduate student who recorded himself having a nervous breakdown
and destroying the camera
. adn inaddition a scene that drew a big laugh from everyone presetn wehn i saw the film
, a man tries to aciheve closure after a failed relatiopnship by reciting peotry on a bridge anbd
then throwing a typewriter into yhe creek below
. tghe onyl problem wiht
" slacker
" is tht it starts tothe run out of steam towards the end
. sicne linklater only spends a few mintues whith earch character
, the introduction ofthe hte new characters gets repeative aftter a hwile
. ther are only so many times you cxan hear
,
" hey
, what
' s going on
?
"
" nto much
, wqat are you up to
?
"
" nothing raelly
, jstu hanging around
,
" before it gets on your nerves
; thge film might well have benefited from a slightly slower pace adn a littel bited moreso characterization
. annd the dialogue in tghe second half of the film is by
and large not qtuie as intresting as that inaddition the first half
; a jfk buff
, for exemple
, seems liek a pale imitation of tjhe previvous conspiracy theorist
, annd many of the charachters jsut generaly aren
' t as weird or unique
. instead ofthe depicting a city populated by mostly normal people anbd
then showing us the strangeness that we might not hvea noticed at first
, linklater shows us the oddballs first
, thne stops adn reminds us that ordinary people live ther too
.
" slacker
" isnt a good film
and a wonderfully offbeat annd intertaining comedy
, whatever its flaws
, anbd its status as a cult clasic is well
- deserved
. i jsut cxan
' t help bu think it might ahve beeen even better if linklater hadnt slowed down a littel bited
and filmed these scenes inaddition reverse order
.