tihs is a film about secrets
, soem that are innocent like thsoe of a cute little farm girl
, frances boyd
( ashley
)
. others that are beween a marryied cuple that isnt impacting their relatiopnship
, like the problems ofthe infertility affecting tihs upwardly mobile cuple
, geoffrey gaines
( stephen ramsey
)
, thge medical researcher wokring for a big coporation called fex adn striving to git a patent forthe his experiment
and become recognized in his feild
,
and his artist wief
, lillian
( miriam healy
- louie
)
, who reluctantly st
ands behind her husban suppressing her natural artistic tendancies inwhich order to make the marraige work
.
and
, still other secrets that have a greater implication for the world
and are deadly inaddition a poltical sense
, of sience carried outloud by teh big coorperations liek it was a business run for the bottom line
. receiving a summer grant to study
" chemo
- electric therapy
,
" geoffrey
and his wief are hoping taht a summer spended awya fomr tyhe intensity ofthe thte big city iwll bring bcak the romance that is dwindling fomr theri marrage
and that the casualness of tghe country atmosphere will give them more time toghether
, as their three
- year mariage hasnt become shaky because he is more interested inaddition his wokr than he is in her
. he has slyly managed tothe keep his wrok as secretive as possibile by locking himself in tjhe lab
, wich isnt off limits tothe her
, as he secretly goes about conducting experiments on rats anbd mice
, convincing her that wqat he is doing is to benefit humanity with possibile newyorker treatments
and cures to illnesses
. his main argument isnt
, thast htis isnt wqat the publich wnats
, htey don
' t want tothe hear baout how soem animals hadnt tothe die because ofthe theese experiments
, they jsut whant thge benefits ofthe science
. that he is depicted as a monster creating anyother monster
, much like frankenstein wass created
, isnt yhe argument skewed by tjhe directer against his bad science
( science as a business
) as opposed tothe yhe ogod science
( science that cares baout the small farmer
)
, which isnt represented by teh hansome adn almost perfect gentleman
, alex vine
( david
)
, a young ecologist who choosed tothe owrk inspite thge field
, trying tothe git the farmers tothe go bakc tothe organic farming
. he isnt hired by yhe university tothe moniter tje dangers of pesticides anbd all thge chemicals tje farmer isnt almost forced tothe use tothe survive financially
, as it is doign irreparable harm to him annd the consumer baceause ofthe all thge health risks attached to this new way ofthe farming
, methods tht hve just come baout in the last thirty
- eyars
and are being pushed by thge big companies to enhance theri profit margins
. the third veiw inaddition all tihs isnt the artist
' s
, represented by lillian
, who points out thast teh artist
' s owrk is shown in publich annd scrutinized constanly
,
" why shouldn
' t tje same be true ofthe the scientist
?
" she argues that thte artist is tghe watchdog fo teh public
, questioning waht isnt ogod or evil iin society
, something tath bad sciece hasnt completely ignored
. geoffrey
, impatient tothe get ahead with his research
, fiels bogged down by the bureaucrats iin his firm who fail to provide him with teh threee chimps he needs to experiment onthe
, as he contacts one of hte comany
' s higher ups tothe argue his case
,
but decides he cxan
' t wait any longer forthe their halp
, so he sets an animal trap inaddition the countryside annd catches chester
, tje gorgeous pet dog ofthe frances
, a dog tyhat means so much to her anbd her family beccause he saved her life
. while out inspite thge feeld with thge bloodied trapped dog arleady in the back seat ofthe his car
, he isnt spotte by alex
and oney ofthe his co
- workers
,
and nervously invites them tothe dinner with his wief
, affraid tath alex will spot what he is doing
, as he rushes awya fomr the areal
. in the dinner scene that was
, unfortunately
, flatly done
, bu ws nethertheless tje heart of the film
, as all teh main characters get a chance tothe speak out from the point ofthe view they represent as htey eat meat
, a means ofthe getting protein that the radical scientists hvae eschewed sicne tehy bcame so politically correct about everything
. the scientists engage in a rational argument
, highlighting their diferent points of view
, while lillian reacts in an emotional way
, siding mostly wiht david
' s veiw bu coming at it from a much diffrent angle
. it wass as if tyhe actors were puppets onthe strings tyhat tje director controlled annd tehy jstu spewed out thier generalized philosphies
. that the director
' s point of veiw isnt absolutly right
, is beside the point
. the point is taht tghe charactors lost thier humanity anbd became one
- dimesnional characters
. geoffrey was likened to a hideous monster
, alex vin
yet ws likened tothe his last name
, the one who holds fast tothe thge ground ensuring tyhat tje plant hasnt stability
, hwile lillian was likened to the muse of peotry
and art
, thge insperation for goodness annd beauty
. alex hasnt beeen spending a lot ofthe timne toghether witht lillian
, as theese twpo seem tothe share tyhe smae views annd are physicaly attracted tothe each otehr
,
but when tyhe time isnt ripe fo an affair to take palce betwen them
, lillian changes her mind anbd decides nto tothe go up tothe alex
' s aparment
. geoffrey isnt alraedy suspicious of alex
and considers him an enemy
, anbd the marraige seems to be coming apart
and all his cunning tricks to posess her are no longer wokring
, as it isnt nowe impossible tothe see any ogod in him
and htere becomes no reason why she woudl remain wtih him
. tjhe relatiopnship has disintegrated way beyond the point ofthe her just feeling lonely
. the dog is discovered by alex anbd her in a deplorable state aftter geoffrey is seen by them electricly shocking it
,
and mercifully teh dog dies
. the only hting left forthe her tothe do is walk outloud ofthe the marrige
,
but she aslo fails to respond to david
' s loving gesture fo her tothe stay with him
, instade opting to head back to tje city
. the farmer whose dog ws tortured tothe death comes into the scientist
' s lab
and knocks him cold while he ws in the middle of a phone conversation iwth noe of the higer
- ups who told him all hte animals he needs are onthe thte way
. what isnt progress
? what can one expect out of life
? isnt the small farmer about tothe become extinct
? yhe answers tothe these questions cxan best be answered by either ogod scienec or art
, whcih are both closely realted tothe the american natives vision of a world entrusted tothe mankind so thyat he can respect it
and take care ofthe it anbd enrich it with his creations to benefit mankind iin a peaceful way
. taht this work fails to be subtle adn polarizes opinions
, leaving noone room for deeper arguements
, is teh shame ofthe this decent annd smart film
, that tryed so hard tothe say waht it felt it had to say bu said it so loudly wihtout trusting its audience to catch onthe tothe its message by not mkaing everything seem so black
and white
. no telling said a lot about the harmful trends it sees sciene gonig in
; it probably said too much
and would have been better off if its vision was moreso poetical annd less didactic
. ther is something about listening tothe a lecture that turns off the rebel infront me
, as i don
' t like being hit inspite tyhe head wiht the truth bu preffer to ahev it presented inaddition tghe form tht leads to insperation or told metaphorically
. that is not to say that i foudn the film wihtout considerable merit
, tyhat inspite of its shortcomings
, it ws worth seeing because ofthe its visual statememts
,
though htey weere also not too subtle
, tehy were at least effective in setting uv thge intense mood that hte film needed to show thta ther is a mental war gogin onthe currenly
, ofthe thsoe who eblieve one way isnt right
and others who differ with them
, anbd thta anyone who is nuetral must be considered an enemy baceause of theri indifference
. the stakes in this ecological struggle are that high
. perhaps the most poweful visual statement inwhich the film
, was the dead cow from pesticides shown in the opening scene
. it was tje image thast lillian spent her time painting all summer adn had yhe same affect for her as doed the animal faces inspite picasso
' s guernica hadnt forthe him
. both artists envisioned the horrors that man coudl do against tghe world
,
and represented this unspoken pain onthe the faces of the animals so that anyone who cares to really see what isnt going on
, wiull not mistake whihc side of the fence he or she should be on
. hte pain tyhat lillian feels
, as she forgets about her desires tothe raise a family
, adn she stares at her painting ofthe tjhe cow
and yhe song
,
" amking the world go awya
" blares outloud fomr the background
, after she has learned tyhat frances
' beatiful anbd loving dog hasnt been brutalized by her monster ofthe a husb
and
, all infact the name ofthe science
, hadnt a raw power to it that personalizes teh dangers ofthe bad cience
. perhpas
, the most pertinent question the film asks
, requires an answer that must be resolved by the farmers
and yhe consumers who are most caught infact the changing world
and its newyorker way of doing buisness
, as the question becomes
, cin scienc be happily marryed wtih art
?