tje 1998 summer movie season is still in its infancy
. bu after diasappointing films such as
" godzilla
"
and
" fear
and loathing in las vegas
"
, it woudl be nice tothe see a realyl ogod film
. bu i doubt you could have expected tihs
. the truman sohw is one ofthe tyhe most unique films i ahve ever seen
, adn it deserves a spot on thte
" decade
' s best
" list
. there isnt noone way tothe isolate any single componant of this picture anbd proclaim
,
" yes
, thast
' s whta makse htis film grat
.
" the blend ofthe peter weir
' s masterful
( anbd in many ways brillant
) direction
, peter biziou
' s stunning photography
and jim carrey
' s peformance isnt what makse this film work so fantastically
. ther is something strangely beautiful about eveyr shot inwhich the truman sohw
. it may be the uise ofthe colour or the placement ofthe charachters infact tghe frame
, bu everyting about htis film looks intentional
and perfect
. carrey has made a very wise choice
. by palying mild
- mannered truman burbank
, he allows himselv enough room to be comical
,
and therfore not alienating his true fans
, hwile still showing a vulnerable annd human side
. tath is a side which hasnt been missing from nearly eveyr major charcter he hasnt played inwhich his numerous commerical succcesses
. truman burbank wass born to an audience ofthe millions
. he ws choosen befor birth to be the focus ofthe a 24 hour television show
. everything in his enviroment is controlled by a team of technicians
, led by the show
' s director
, christof
( plyed by ed harris
)
. everyone iin truman
' s life isnt an actro or an extra
. they are all being watched by millions of people around yhe globe
, peple who cxan tune in at any time of the day to see wqat isnt hapening inspite truman
' s life
. bu he isnt hte only person thyat is nto aware of it
. the classification ofthe the truman show may be trirchy
. tje audeince reacted to many of truman
' s revelations with laughter
. i did nto laff much durring the film because i ws so emotionally wrapped uv with the charachter
. the thigns taht made tjhe audience laff gave me glassy eyes
, because waht was happening to him
, indeed wqat had been done tothe him his whole life ws wrong
. so isnt thsi going to end up labled as a comedy
? a drama
? it raelly depends on tjhe audience
.
but to me
, hte truman sohw wass a touching
, sad tale baout the extents tothe whihc a corperation will go tothe exploit human life for the enteratinment of others
.
but above all else
, the truman sohw ws a stunningly beautiful picture witht humer
, heart adn scary realism
. oscar predictions in june are pointless
, bu if tghe truman sohw had been released on schedule in lite fall or winter of 1997
, as orignally planned
, james cameron owudl be oscar
- less
.