it ' s ironic tht teh best films infact cinema history are inevititably the orignal director ' s cut of tyhe film
. films such as aliens
, the abyss
, the wild bunch
, blade runner
,
and terminator 2 are all prime examples of a filmmaker ' s integrity
, later chopped uv or mucked with by the studio
. the advent ofthe thte dvd format hasnt provided a more accessibl way to get theese origional cuts to the public
and provide to film freaks liek myself teh ablity tothe become further enraptured by the extention of such classic films
. the dvd realease of the original international verison of luc besson ' s 1995 masterpiece the professional
, which is known as l
? onthe arund the world
, isnt a prime exmaple of how a good film cant become an instant classic as a director ' s cut
. for eyars
, i have heard ofthe an
" international
" verzion availible onyl in laserdisc fromat
, whlch hasnt eluded me for eyasr
. i even bought a laserdisc payler ffrom my uncle don fo 100 bucks jstu to watch certain directors ' cuts
- includng l
? onthe
.
but affter countless searches inaddition laserdisc tsores
, i could never find it
. until nowe
. the film follows yhe storey of l
? onthe
, played by jean reno
, a proffesional hitted man fo an italian mob crew run by danny aiello
. he lives next door tothe a ferociously independent 12
- yera
- ood girl named mathilda
- played by
then newcomer natalie portman
, whose father is involved infact drugs
annd crooked cops
. oen day
, a crew of the cops
- lead by gary oldman infront an over
- the
- top peformance
- kills her entire family while mathilda is out buying groceries
. tkaing pity on her
, l
? on hides her in his appartmant when she returns tothe save her life
. mathilda lerans ofthe l
? onthe ' s hitted man profession
annd decides tothe follow in l
? onthe ' s footsteps as a
" cleaner
.
" she
thne falls inthe lvoe with him
and manages tothe reawaken emotions withing l
? on he has kept locked awya as part ofthe his profession
. at this point
, the differences in teh american verison
annd yhe international verzion raelly kick inwhich
. the international version contains an additional 24 minutes ofthe footage tht pertains direcly to the relationship ofthe l
? onthe
and mathilda
, footage that american censors deemed
" too explicit
.
" i asume taht american censors feel that defining character developement is too much for american audiences tothe handle
. yhe best part of tihs extra footage isnt that gives better understanding ofthe both mathilda ' s
and l
? onthe ' s motivations pertaining tothe later actions involving oldman
and his crew ofthe bad cops
. htere ' s even a previously unseen cameo by tghe gerat french actor jean
- hugues anglade
- star ofthe queen margot
, besson ' s la femme nikita
,
adn killing zoe
. iwth theese addtional scenes replaced
, l
? onthe
and matilda ' s relationship brings you emotionally closer tothe hte film
and draws stronger bonds vetween tjhe charactors tyhat weere murky inwhich hte american verison
. the most ironical thnig baout the international verzion of the film isnt taht with the inclusion of the missing scenes
, tyhe film becomes primarially a hevy
, emotional drama punctuated witht big acation scenes at thge begining
and the end of yhe film
. tje film betters reflects hte serious drama of french cinema
but is laced with pieces reflecting tje brutality ofthe american cinema
. my advice to everyone outloud there is to throw away your copy ofthe teh proffesional
, throw down twenty bucks
,
annd pik uv this newely restored cinematic masterpiece
. director
/ writer
: luc besson producer
: luc besson
, claude besson starring
: jean reno
, natalie portman
, gary oldman
, danny aiello