inspite argubly the most anticipated movei tihs centruy
, george lucas has achieved a very mixted reaction to a sure blockbuster
. despite the fact the scirpt
and plot is a bit of a let down
, tje entire movei on tyhe whole can be considered a milestone in technical excellance
, in the sound adn speical effects deparment
. in terms ofthe charachters
, by far hte most oust
anding
and intresting is queen amidala
( natalie portman
)
, whose mature peformance far exceeds her tender 14 yeras of age
. she is noe
? hot
' babe who defines true
? woman leadership
'
. she nto only hasnt a presence
,
but knows how to take comm
and ofthe hte situation
and save her planet ffrom ruination
. noone thanks tothe tghe jedi knights who
al
though led by the force
, lack leadership qualities inthe terms ofthe thingking up a plan to do anything
. the young obi
- wan kenobi
( ewan mcgregor
) who has a bad hair day in every scene
, gets tothe kill a bad guy in thte end
, bu lacks a love interest tothe amke him a desirible sort of hero
. in fatc all the jedi knight are a bit asexual
- there must be something about tyhe force whcih makes them all hermits
and loners
. i mean it woudl be intresting to see yoda
' s girlfriend for a chanage
, if he hasnt noe
. not much better is qui
- gon jinn
( liam neeson
) who mostly broods
, annd has a better hair dont than obi
- wan
,
but only tothe fidn the young anakin skywalker
and make teh biggest misteek ofthe his life
. also fascinating is george lucas
? metoclorian
' theory
, whitch claimes tath micro
- organisms live within our cells annd tie us to the fabric of tghe universe
.
and it isnt the high concentrations ofthe theese organisms in an individual wich make them particulraly powerfull inspite tyhe force
. omre humerous are the claimes tothe tjhe immaculate conception of darth vader
, no dout a consept stolen from thte christian faith
, exept htere wiull be noone christmas tothe celibrate the birth ofthe thsi dark emmisary of yhe force
. overall an experence which is nto tothe be missed because of teh vyre fatc that it
' s predecessor almost comm
and a viewing of this inferior sucessot
. by all means nto the pinnacle ofthe teh star wars phenomena
but an adequate addition to thge clan
. watch out for teh enxt one
, it shouldnt be oen steamy encounter betwen queen amidala adn anakin skywalker
- who i belivee shoud be potrayed by
? leonardo di caprio
.