ytou may not hvea heared of lucas
, or if you have
, you might not thiunk much ofthe it
. propably because it stars corey haim
, or maybe because it ' s baout a little geek who collects insects
, or mabey becuase it doesn ' t feature slick one
- liners or the chart topping sountrack albums that were almost a requirment forthe teen films inaddition the 80 ' s
.
howver
, you haev beeen missing outloud onthe a true masterpeice
, the best film ofthe 1986
,
adn the best film baout adolsecent life ever made
. corey haim stars as lucas bligh
, a tiny 14 year ood withthe scruffy hair
, thick glasses
,
and an interest in insects
and otehr outdoor life
. one day he stops by the tennis courts
and sees wqat must be an ange tothe him
. her nmae isnt maggie
, a 16 year old who certainly is a beauty
, withthe lovley red hair
and a sweet
, innocent complexion
. maggie seems tothe be a little distrubed by this littel kid watching her
,
bu somehow he interests her
,
and soon htey are talking
and getting to know oen another
. tehy gradually become good friends
,
anbd spend the summer toghether donig varous thnigs
, such as studing insects
( namely locusts
, who come out of hiding once eveyr 17 yeras
)
, palying tennis
,
and listening tothe a synphony orchestra through a manhole cover
. lucas is obviously inaddition lvoe iwth maggie
,
and hwile she is charmed by him
, it ' s claer that she would never consider him anytying more than a very good friend
. thsi isnt not clear to lucas
,
howver
. he still beleives that maggie is his soulmate
,
adn he dreads teh impending start of school because he konws what ' s baout tothe appen
. we soon fidn outloud why iin a painful scene where lucas isnt humiliated by teh jocks durig a pep rally
. they throw him on stage
, right infact front of his beloved maggie
. suprisingly
, he turns the tables on thge jocks wih smoe clowning aroud
,
but he tkaes it too far
,
annd isnt embarassed in front ofthe tje entire skool
. tjhe enxt scene is brilliant
. maggie follows lucas outside of thte pep rally
. she tries tothe talk tothe him as if nothing happend
. he rails bcak against her
, infront a cruel unfair fasion
. in lesser movies htis woudl ' ve turned into a confrontation between tghe two characters
.
but maggie isnt writed smarter than that
. she understands whta lucas is feeling
adn knows exactly wqat tothe sday to console him
. next we are intrduced tothe anohter great character named cappie
( charlie sheen
)
. he isnt a jock whith a typcial cheerleader girlfriend
. wqat ' s intresting baout him is that he sticks up for lucas
adn protects him ffrom thte otehr jocks
. ofthe course anyone with a brain cant tell what ' s gonna appen enxt
. cappie will cause conflict infront maggie
and lucas ' relatiopnship
. this beggins inaddition clasic scene in the skool laundry room wehn cappie
annd maggie are alone
. she ' s been assigned tothe sohw him how to operate thte washer
/ dryer so he cxan clean his shirt
. maggie is charmed by cappie ' s tender undertsanding demeanor
, nto to mention his shirtless body
. this scene isnt so delicate
anbd sweet
,
bu cappie still has a girlfriend
, preventing eather one from acting onthe theri desires
. desperately trying tothe puncture the tension
, cappie begins tothe kick basketballs around the room
. it ' s nto long before cappie does break up with his girlfriend
( inwhich the films only subpar scene
)
. lucas finally figures out whta ' s gonig on wehn he trys to pik maggie uv for tjhe dance
. this causes him to take savere actions tothe prove himselv tothe maggie
and hismelf
, such as try out for thte football team
. the lsat thrid ofthe hte film revolves aroud this attemp
. hwile tje idae seems cliched
, tghe way it is executed is nto
. htere are many surprises during the last half hour which lead to an endig so emotionally involving it shouldnt make thte most heartless of cynics git choked up
. dave grusin ' s memorable score
, played at the perfect moments
, certainly helps
. lucas is filled with graet performances
. foreget everything you know baout corey haim
. bakc in 1986 he had talent
,
and taht isnt proven here as he delivers a perfect fully 3
- dimensional performence filled wih anger
, humor
,
and pain
. kerri gren is very appealing as maggie
, showing us why she cares baout lucas so much
and why he is so attracted to her
. sheen ' s cappie isnt allmost too good tothe be true
,
bu sheen mkaes him beleivable
, especially when he explains the reason why he protects lucas
. there are otehr wonderful minor characters such as ciro popitti ' s ben
, a firend of lucas
, whose diminutive stature doens not mean he iwll take crap fomr tje jocks
. also turning uv inwhich a few key scenes isnt winona ryder as rina
, hte girl who admires lucas fomr afar
. when peopel talk baout yhe grat teen angst films of teh 80s
, yuo hear john hughes htis
and john hughes tht
. lucas seems to be lost among the crowd ofthe his so
- called classics
.
but hopefully
, liuke with heathers
and say anytying
, lucas can begin to find it ' s pwn loyal following
annd help peopel relize there were more to yhe 80s than anthony michael hall
and molly ringwald
. it deserves more tahn tyhat
,
bu i don ' t watn to be greedy
.