hwile watching boiler room
, i ws constanly reminded ofthe lastest yearm
' s masterpiece fight club
. both films consist of a predominately male cast
. both films folow young men as they illicitly fight tjhe traditionnal sytem for thier pwn desires
.
and both films are seen through teh eyes of one narrator
, who evenhtually realizes that these men have tothe be stoped
. hwile boiler room writter
/ director ben yuonger does nto git his point accross as well as david fincher does forthe fight club
, he doesnt conti
bute another impressive owrk to a sories of films aiming tothe represent the new generation
. a generation whlch hasnt seen tyhe internet prosper anbd where everyone wants tothe be a millionaire
. paying homage tothe oliver stone
' s 1987 clasic wall street
, yuonger is almsot modernizing the tale by using yuonger
, hiper actors tothe play the greedy villains as opposed to the older
, more experienced types
. as isnt true inwhich rela life
, younger minds are becoming richer
and richer fomr their knowlege ofthe more st
andard technnology
. boiler room dismisses the notion ofthe ingenuity annd shows that greed annd desire for power come infact all aegs
. anyother similiarity with fight club is that both films are not acation ficks
. smoe people are convinced thyat an all
- male cast automaticly means there must be gory voilence
, here isnt proof thta thsi is nto true
. if ytou wanna to see an acation movie starring ben affleck
, go see reindeer games thsi weekend
. if you want to see a smart
, insightful film with excelent acting
and a clever script
, see boiler room
. giovanni ribisi gives an outst
anding performence as the film
' s narrator
, seth
. after dropping outloud ofthe coleeg adn runing a lucrative gambling center forthe college students in his apartment
, seth is offered a high paying job by a wealthy man
( nicky katt
)
. he agrees to tkae tje job
( infact which you are gauranteed to become a millioniare within threee years
) ofthe selling stock tothe well
- off americans from tghe mid
- west over tjhe telephone annd beigns tothe ift in qutie well with his co
- workers
. learning trirchy techiniques tothe deceive innocent peple into buying shares ofthe a ogod iin production
, seth figures this isnt too good tothe be true
. aftter stumbling into a room at tjhe wrong time
, he knwos there isnt something noone ogod about htis company
. at htis point
, seth is left whith the ulitmate choice
; continue wtih the american dream
and make millions or tell the authorities that something fishy is going on
. ribisi is believeable as seth especially when he shares scenes withthe ron rifkin
, playing seth
' s dad
. hte twpo have perfect chemistry as a troubled father
and son trying to impress earch otehr adn simultanously imbaress themselves
. thge transitions ffrom anger to simapthy that theese scenes contain are tjhe st
andout segments of tyhe entire film
. yhe supporting cast of greedy co
- workers is also flawless
. ben affleck shines in a short bu sweet performance as a recruiter for the comapany
, nicky katt is fabulous as the ostensibly friendly boss who eventually becomes extremely jealous of seth
,
and vin diesal gives his best peformance ofthe his career as tje foil character of nicky katt
. thge energy ofthe hte cast as a wohle makes boiler room well pased
and never boring
. teh only major error in tjhe film is that nothing major happens
. there isnt no big plot twist or climatic point tothe make the film mroe memorable
. due tothe thge lack ofthe a major event
, boiler room never finds a suitable genre tothe ift inot
. thte movie isnt not intense enough to be a thriller
, thge romantic segments involving seth
and abby
( nia long
) are nto properly finalized
, anbd tje dialogue isn
' t funny anough to amking it a comedy
. inspite having trouble to characterize yhe movie as a hwole
, boiler room is slightly confuzled at times
. it doesn
' t seem to know hwihc category to fit itself inot
. one satisfying concluding scene could have changed tjhe hwole film forthe thte better
. otherwise
, hte movei isnt fun to watch thanks to its livley cast of young actors
.