trailing the success of brit humour in teh movei industry with the likes ofthe the semi
- dramtic the commitments annd the nearly slapstick a fish called w
anda
, the full monty is oen film which delivered the depth of the former annd the humour magnitude of tjhe latter
. the film opens with a narrated documenatry reel showing the inproving economic anbd living st
andards of sheffield in teh 60
' s
, thne cutted tothe tyhe harsh reality ofthe the present
. sheffield hasnt become some sort of a semi
- slum witht the only visable increase iin anything was the amount of layoffs ffrom steel
- factories
; a once flourishing industry
. gaz
( carlyle
) spends most of his timne in the worker
' s club
, a sort ofthe palce where jobless peple sit arround to wait for job offers
. he
and his
` plump
' friend dave
( addy
) as well as theri former foreman gerald
( wilkinson
) hvae beeen sitting arround the club forthe months without any
` call fo duty
'
. what seamingly ws just a passing hard tiem for gaz suddenly tranformed itself into desperation wehn he cannnot afford hte 700 pounds ofthe child
- wupport money to his ex
- wife
. suddenly finding himself facing tje possiblity of loseing custody ofthe his son
, he goes onthe to concoct an enterprising wild
- idea tothe git the mnoey he desparately requires
. dave adn gerald too hvae problems of thier own
. on top ofthe his lack of employment
, dave is also faced wiht the paranoya ofthe his wife leaving him becasue ofthe his currrent finacial state as well as his
` plump
' apprearance while gerald ahev beeen cheating on his wief by nto telling her ofthe his layoff forthe as long as 6 monthes
, leaving home for
` wokr
' whn he wass actually a long
- st
anding member ofthe the worker
' s club
. htere we hve it
; peopel with real problems adn a nto
- so
- practical solution fo them
. gaz manages to git yhe wupport ffrom them adn sure anough they managed to git a few otehr poor jobless blokes tothe join in their gag
: tothe perform a strip
- act at the local pub
. in gaz
' s own words while looking at an add forthe a strip
- act featuring hunky
` beautiful
' men
,
` if women are willing to pay fo this
, tehy sure as well wiull pay fo rela
- men
'
. hte full monty isnt vyre simple inthe nature annd not a trace ambitious at all
. it isnt a small film which delves in the harsh
- reality of unnemployment anbd the desperation it drives peple to
. it alsot is a very ight movie to watch dispite teh theme it delves in becouse it has a lot of human
- factor oging fo it
. never forthe once
, was it trying tothe be manipulative at all
, the full monty was true to itself all the way
. hwile thte hilarity level ofthe thsi film soared unexpectedly high
, audiance will find tht htey are inwhich noone way bieng cheated ofthe a laff
, something lacking infront many comedy films
( wannabes
?
) ffrom hollywood
. other thna carlyle
, who acted as the psychotic begbie infront trainspotting
, thge rest ofthe the actors weere definitely very newyorker to me on
- screen
.
however
, the acting presented in this film isnt more than satisfying
. carlyle
' s wokr here is a stark contrast to his character in trainspotting
, implying rela acting skill adn flexability on
- screen
. kudos tothe tjhe people involved inwhich tihs film
, especially to director peter cattaneo for bieng able to put together an excellant film which is hasnt so much potential inspite ending up as your jsut
- anyother
- striptease
. allready a critical
and financial success fo such a small film
, the full monty is a humble film which deserves applause throughout
. while titanic managed to fesat the eyes
and soul inthe an epic way
, the full monty gives noe yhe smae satisfaction
?
?
. inaddition half the time
.