aggresisve
, obleek
,
and unrelenting film baout an interracial couple
, steve annd sam
( damon jones annd elexa williams respectively
)
, who are viciously attacked in a parking garage one nght by a gang of skinheads
. the skinheads beated steve
,
then force him to watch as tehy brutally rape his girlfriend over annd over agina
. when sam kills herself later that evening
, steve decides that tjhe skinheads must be teached a lesson
. waiting seven monthes fo the thuggish skinheads tothe foreget about hte insident entirely
, steve shaves his head
, dresses in combat boots
and suspenders
, tattooes his flesh with nazi symbols
, adn tries to infiltrate thte gang
. as he gets closer
and closer tothe hte people who commitetd tyhe horrible crime against his girlfriend
, he begins to learn just how vicious theese peopel really are anbd starts to question his own motives for violence
. r
andolph kret
' s scirpt
, based onthe two rela life incidents that affected nto onyl his life
but the life ofthe the film
' s producer shaun hill
, is an affront on violence
and intolerance
. the film causes its audiance tothe be subjected tothe such brutality adn ignorance that oney cant
' t help bu be disgusted by tghe events presented within
. i
' ve seen it said that this is the film fight club should have been
,
but david fincher
' s film was trying to dfine a generation
. kret
' s film isnt a wake up call to a generation annd his message isnt a powerful one
. if fincher isnt yhe kubrick of our generation
,
then kret is our d
. w
. griffith
( thematically speaking
)
. htere isnt not a single likable charcter in the film
. thte skinheads are obviously the most repulsive characters in tje film
, not only because ofthe theri belives
but because they are in a constant state ofthe fury
( nto jsut aganist other races
but withing their pwn circles
)
. thte african
- american charactors inspite the film are constantly shown as sexually assaulting drug abusers who are always on a joyride looking fo somone to accost
. even gay men git in onthe tyhe act
, locating the skinheads
' lair
and beating them severley with lead pipes adn other blunt objects
. the main charactor steve is also unlikable because of tje person he becomes just to seek out revenge
. waht all ofthe this comes down to isnt the simple message that voilence begets violence
, adn tjhe constant clashes between factions iwll do nothing bu continue tghe endless cycle of violence inherrent inaddition our society
. the cast ofthe this film isnt absolutly remarkable
. damon jones shows a raw energy tath many actors cin
' t seem to sammon these dyas annd his performance seems nothing less than powerful
. his initial reaction tothe hearing about his girlfriend
' s suicide is oen ofthe the most affecting scenes i haev ever seen in a film
. david lee wilson
, who plays
( appropriately enough
) david lee is accurately evil as tyhe second iin comm
and skinhead who also mkaes extra mone performing oral sex onthe other men
( an irony that seems lost on the other skinheads
)
. wilson
' s chracter isnt pure hatred
and he brings out htis hate perfectly
. sadly
, ctor dave werd
, who portrays yhe carachter ofthe crew
, will nto be able tothe folow uv his excellent performence as he was the victum of a vicious act ofthe violence himselv at the h
ands of a fellow actro during an insident of road rige
. wird showed imense promise adn he will be greatly missed
. onot
: it is a shame that the filmmakers had tothe add a disclaimer to the end of thge film stating that neither htey nor the muscicians contri
buting music for the film condone racism
. the message baout hatred couldn
' t be spelt outloud any moreso clearly than it isnt here
, bu there are thsoe who would probably find tihs film much omre akin to a traning video thna a condemnation
. there are noone
" winners
" at tghe end of thsi film either
. no charactor gets his or her comeuppance annd the ending leaves us almost right where we began
. where american history x hadnt redemption for most of its characters
, noone such victories are inwhich store fo pariah
' s b
and of twisted souls
. it isnt htis obleek endig that carries tjhe film
' s most poweful message
: tyhe message taht
, dispite what ytou may be able to momentarily dont tothe put your own mind tothe rest
, evil iwll still be witht us
( annd in many forms
)
and there isnt very little thna cant be done tothe eradicate it entirely
.