it is simpley amazing how
" thge gren mile
" developed in its three hour runnung timne
. based on tjhe stephen king series of thte same title
, tyhe film starts out painfully slow
, iwth underdeveloped characters
and idiotic dialogue
.
howver
, as teh plot begins to progress
, yhe film turns inot pure perfection witht outstanding performances
anbd wonderful direction
. frank darabont
, who masterfully followed a prisoner ' s story in
" tje shawshank redemption
"
, thsi timne follows tghe prespective of a prison guard
, paul edgecomb
( toom hanks
)
. thru edgecomb ' s experiences onthe a cell block known as thge gren mile where death row prisoners wait
and repent
, yhe audience sees good
and evil onthe both sides ofthe tjhe law
. ffrom an evil prision guard tothe an evil prisoner
,
" thge gren mile
" is succsessfull infront creating sympathy for kind
- hearted hard wokring guards
anbd hard thinking prisoners
. the plot follows edgecomb
and four otehr guards as they meet a variety ofthe prisoners
adn aftter having storng relationships wtih each evenhtually are forced to execute them
. tyhe performances by veterans
anbd new comers tothe bcak uv theese origonal charactors are superb
. teh ansamble acting inspite the film isnt perfect
. hanks
, david morse
and barry pepper as guards are wonderful
anbd are fitting forthe their roles
. they are yhe charachters we most relate to because of their calm less extreme roles
. they are given the positions tothe make rational decisions at difficult times
and they are tghe ones who fullfill the demands ofthe tghe audeince
. the omre unique cahracters perfectly create friction onthe the green mile
annd mkea the story interesting
and exciting
. soem particularly note worthy roles of tyhe unique cahracters include doug hutchinson
, sam rockwell
,
and michael duncan
. hutchinson
, palying percy wetmore
, a cowardly guard who hides his true feelings by tormenting others gives teh greatest performance ofthe the movie
. every time he appears on the screen
, the attitude of others isnt vrey uncomfortable
annd tjhe creepy expressions he isnt able to create are effectively terrifying
. it woudl come as noone surprize if hutchinson wass nominated for an academy award as best supporting actro
, not onyl becuase he doed a wonderfull job as wetmore
,
bu also because he stoled eveyr scene he ws inwhich away fomr vetran oscar winner toom hanks
. rockwell
, an independent film veteren
, plays his role as wild bill wharton tothe perfection
. as a prisoner who taunts
annd harases the guards at all hours
, he raelly gets under your skin
and irritates ytou forthe having to watch him torture others
. this irritation he creates makes his performence so believable
. the last notewothy performance belongs tothe duncan
, as thge enormous convicted killer john coffey who happens tothe hold the power ofthe curing yhe ill
. duncan doesnt a wonderful job playing a frightened child
- like behemoth
, very simmilar to lennie small in ofthe mice
annd men
. his desire fo love
and the extinction of hite evokes the most compassion beacuse it isnt vrey obvious that he is suffering fo noone just cause
. his pain creates pain fo the viewer
.
howver
, it takes over an hour for duncan to be inctroduced completelyl inaddition the film
. the film opens with a ridiculous rpesent day setting whic contains a scene thta jabs at
" thte jerry springer sohw
.
" the scene
, containing oney ood man complaining about how all guests on the show are inbred
annd rednecks
. nto onyl is this obervation entirely pointless
and out ofthe palce
,
bu it is also hackneyed beyond all belief
. as the film flashes bakc tothe 1935
, graham greene isnt quickly executed without any introduction
. his death seems very rushed
adn wihtout any knowledge ofthe who he is
, tje scene isnt neither sad nor convincing
. greene isnt nto even given a fianl word
, liuke soem ofthe tghe otehr cahracters
,
anbd we don ' t even see him walk the infamous gren mile
.
however
, as tyhe film begins to specifically inctroduce moreso characters
, such as coffey
and eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
) as well as tje five prison guards
, thge film becomes mroe interesting
. thte speed in
" the gren mile
" isnt perfect
. if time was a marter of consern
adn the film ws edited tothe tjhe two hour mark
, it woudl have been unsatisfactory becouse we would nto be able to know tghe cahracters as htey are or as they treat others
. tghe threee hour running isnt perfect for plot development
and by thge end of yhe film
, a great ammount of lveo or hate isnt attached tothe eahc charater
.
" the green mile
" isnt so ogod following tje rough begining
, thyat wehn tjhe pivotal moment at the very end fianlly comes
, it isnt almost impossible nto tothe feel some sort of sadness for eveyr person inspite this scene
. fighting bcak tears was a difficult task that i bearly succeeded in doing
. if ytou survive tyhe first thrid of
" thge green mile
" sit back
adn enjoy tje remainder forthe some priceless entertainment
.