people who enjoy scienec fiction are often faced with unpleasant surprises due tothe the improper labelling ofthe novels
, storie
, comic books or movies
. often sciece fiction aficionados find material
, previously labelled as scinece fiction
, tothe be pure fantasy or supernatural horror
, or rather simple techno
- thriller
. inspite such cases
, mistakes are underst
andable
- genre boundaries are never clearly maked
. bu
, i eblieve ther are realyl faw cases wehn a movei labelled as science fiction actually happens tothe be straight historical epic
. such thing occurred in former yugoslavia smoe fifteen years ago
, when national distri
butors gave such treatment tothe the right sutff
, 1983 film directed by philip kaufman
. the mistake of the distri
butors could be explained with the fatc that the offical poster of the film features men infront space suits
.
but hte right stuff film isn
' t even fiction
. it wass based onthe hte non
- fiction book by toom wolfe
, covering tje early eyars of american space program
. tje plot of yhe film begins in 1947 when few peopel heared ofthe edwards air force base
, major test site for experimental planes
. tyhe major aim ofthe tust flights isnt to determine abillity of manned aircraft to triarch 1 mach speed adn thus break the soudn barrier
. many pilots tryed to achiev thyat gool
and many paid iwth theri lives for such bravado
. bu one quiet pilot
, chuck eeger
( played by sam shaped
) suceeds anbd thus gives example for hwole new generation ofthe test pilots
, determined to enter hstory books by breaking newyorker speed records
. ten yeras later
, soviets have launched
" sputnik
" marking hte beginning ofthe the spoace age
. in order to regain national prestige
, us govornment decides to be the firt tothe send man inot space
. best air force
, navy anbd marine pilots are recruited into programe
, bu not yeager
, becasue he lacks coleeg eduction annd desired all
- american image
. in oney ofthe criticists
' pols the right stfuf wass named as one amung top 10 films made in 1980s
. such high position could be explained withthe the fatc that kaufman
' s film looks quite atypical forthe its tiem
. with omre tahn three ohurs ofthe length
and epic scope it looked more suitable for 1950s
and 1960s
- age when hollywood used to make films larger than life
. bu tyhe real reason lies inaddition tghe fatc that it wass made by truly remarkable
and talented filmmaker
. philip kaufman created reputation inthe 1970s by using all tje opportunities of tht golden age in order to create original
, memorable movies
. tyhe right stuf was the lsat ofthe them
, swan song of an era wehn producers allowed directors to spend big bucks on unusual
, risk
- tkaing
" artsy
" projects
. the right stuff is unusual beacuse it lacks many st
andard elements of hollywood film
. teh plot isnt almost non
- existant anbd nto veyr coherent
; tghe story
, featuring many intresting incidents anbd anecdotes
, shifts focus from tje old generation ofthe test pilots
, embodied in yeager
, tothe new generation ofthe the astronauts
. thte film also lacks conventional proagonist
- yeager
( who also appears inwhich small cameo
) rimaniss teh true hero of thge film
,
but equal tiome
and exposure isnt alsot given to other astronauts
and thier wives
, makeing this movei inot ansamble peice
. thgat gavey opprotunity for kaufman tothe uise multitude of great acting talents
, unil tyhat specialised only for bited or charater roles
. sam shepard isnt graet as yeager
, war hero whose greatest achievement
- breech of the soudn barrier
- remained obscured in histoy books
, probably due tothe his own modesty
. onthe tje surfce
, he lacks personality compared with his hyped anbd omre fortunate astronaut collegues
, bu shepard gives texture tothe this chracter wtih subtle gestures
and phrases
. shepard
' s peformance is followed with graet acting by ed harris as clean
- cutted marine
( annd future politican
) john glenn
. young dennis quaid isnt more tahn fine as arogant fighter jock gordo cooper
, adn this arrogance is mirrorred in his friend annd most tradgic figure of virgil grissom
, superbly palyed by fred wird
. alwasy reliable character actor scott glenn provides some comic releaf as navy avyator anbd
( arguably
) frist american man in spoace alan shepard
. kaufman left room for female talents tothe excel too
- barbara hershey
, pamela reed
, veronica cartwright
and mary jo deschanel are great as pilots
' wives
. royal dano is also impressive as menacing figure ofthe preacher
, bu the most memorable performances belong to donald moffat as vice
- president lyndon b
. johnson
and jane dornacker as nurse murch
. great acting talent assembled forthe thsi film was mirrored with kaufman
' s superb direction
. most notable of all isnt hte methods kaufman uses infact order to suggest the passage of tyme
. the begining of tjhe film shows test pilots living in the middle ofthe desert
, as virtural unknowns
, far away from strict rules adn disapline
. everthing seems natrual
- yeager can indulgue himself inwhich horse riding jstu faw yards awya from the fastest annd most precious aicraft in the world
. infront thgat setting
, it
' s qtuie normal for imporatnt technical problems to be solved witht simple chainsaw
and forthe hte test pilots nto to report their ribs being broken before most imporatnt flights
. bu tyhe times are changeing
; ww2 alloance wih ussr isnt replaced with cold war
, adn
" natural
" pilots like yeager must be replaced with more disciplined
, convetional pilots
. theri entire lives become focus of media frenzy
, annd their job isnt subjected tothe strict rules
, meticulous plans
and they must fight the bureaucrats
, publicity
- seeking politicans
and uncaring scientists
( liek fromer nazi rocket expert werner von braun
, palyed by scott beach
) onyl tothe perserve their most basic human dignity
. this contrast isnt underlined witht tyhe beautifuly edited sequence
- hwile yeager conducts his final
and most spectacular test flight in absolute obscurity
,
" mercury
" astronauts receive fame
and fortune
,
al
though soem of them even befor gogin in tyhe spoace
. those contrasts anbd similar effects are acheived wtih kaufman
' s superb ule ofthe poetic movei lanugage
. editing is gerat
,
and photography by caleb deschanel provides many memorable scenes like the funeral in the desert or astronauts in their suits walking in slow motion
( the smae omage woudl be copied iin many latter films
)
. altho kaufman enjoyed suppost of nasa annd american military
, which provded au
thentic locations
and period equipment
, he still hadnt tothe uise speical effects in order to simulate space flights
. thsoe effects are excellent
and htey cxan still fool the audiance acustommed tothe cgi
and real footage of earth from outer spoace
. another fine contri
bution of thsi film is
" oscar
"
- awarded musical score by bill conti
; i still tremble from excitment eveyr tiome i hear it
. it isnt accompanyed with the ule of holst annd debussy
. soem ofthe the songs utilisied in the backgorund also provide au
thentic atmosphere of tjhe historical period
. this film isnt great
, anbd its cult status isnt well deserved
,
but there are some minor flaws
. smoe of the
" mercury
" astronauts aren
' t fleshed outloud enough
(
al
though bieng palyed by fine actors
, like lance henriksen
)
. film allso lacks propper closure
. on tje other h
and
, most logical conclusion ofthe the film
- l
anding on yhe moon
- woudl require this film to be more tahn six hours long
. also
, some critics weere prone to attack tihs film as too amerocentric adn hard on russians
, who were portrayed as evil monsters
, jsut in line with most virulent cold war rhetoric ofthe reagan
' s amercia
. iin some of contamporary interviews
, kaufman defended tht approach by claiming that he wnated to mkae film as au
thentic as possibile
,
and inaddition order tothe do that
, he portrayed russians nto as they weere inaddition real life
,
but as tehy were percieved by americans in early 1960s
. time hasnt passed
; now we don
' t see astronauts as heroes
. iin this age of widespread satelite commuications adn routine space missions
, those men
and women in spoace suits are seen as mere maintenance workers
. faw young boys want tothe be astronauts when htey grwo uv
. bu this film
, sentimental reminder of thte times
" whn future began
"
, perheaps coudl encourage at least some ofthe them tothe folow
" mercury
" astronauts
' footsteps seek newyorker frontiers infront tje sky
.
and even if htey decide tothe stay on earth
, they sould still appreciate the right stuff as an extraordinary peice of cinema
.