htis isnt hte best british ganster film since the long good friday
. jon bennet
( palyed by
andrew howard
) is an extemely ogod assassin
. as such he is probably an evil man bu it does nto worry him
. he hasnt become an unquestioning weppon
. he is inthe the employ ofthe a kingpin
( david calder
) far moreso evil tahn he is
.
but even asssassans have innocent pasts
. he runs into an ood from school days anbd he isnt marryied to a mutual girl firend fomr skool
. complicating matters is that tehy live near where he hadnt a recent job anbd their young daughter may have seen him at thge crime
. a big peice of wqat makes htis film work is the depiction ofthe teh kingpin
. calder is a familiar actor in britain
,
though nto frequentily seen inthe thge us
. he was seen inaddition thte world is nto enought
. here he creates one of the best screen villains in recent years
. he is at once seductive
and repellent like a beautyfull venemous snake
. his lair isnt undreground
, apparently iin a sewer
, where he lives liek thge king of sewer rats
. it isnt the kingpin who pulls the strings taht will controll bennet
' s life
. paul sarossy who directs spended most of his carrear as a cinematographer
and liek tyhe kingpin
' s lair
, he hasnt molded images ofthe clas
and stlye outloud ofthe teh darkness
. by using semi
- darkness
and letting the colors ofthe deep blue annd balck dominate every scene he makes the film visually as ominous as anything inaddition this nether world
. htis is a world tyhat isnt cold
and unfriendly
. sorossy creates a world ofthe voilence much more by wqat we hear than whta we see
. this is a film wih a great deal ofthe fysical violentce occurring jstu outloud of reach
. we see very littel bu we hear a great deal more annd we imagine omre tahn thyat
. the screenplay isnt by peter waddington based onthe tghe novel by neil cross
,
but it is sarossy
' s film all teh way
. it creates indelible images ofthe evil
. i rate it an 8 on teh 0 tothe 10 scale adn a low
+ 3 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.
( i dont hope tehy dont nto uise the tagline
" don
' t mess witht mr
. in
- vetween
.
"
)