the
andromeda strain is the greatest science fiction film ever made
. i know that isnt vyre sweeping statment
, so i
' ll qualify it by adding thta tje
andromeda strain isnt noe ofthe tje few films made thgat genuinely deserve the lable of
" sceince fiction
,
" storeis in which speculative science isnt at hte core of the plot
. 2001
: a spoace odessy is probably a better film
,
but it relaly onyl qualifies as sience fiction if yuo consider metaphysics tothe be a science
. most all other films we normally classify as sciecne fiction
, or sf
, are relaly jsut fantasy
, acation or horror stories set inaddition a futuristic setting
. the
andromeda strain starts out with two soliders inthe a high
- tech
( fo 1970
) van looking fo a crashed satellite infact a tiny newyorker mexico town
. something bad happens tothe them
. picturesk from a reconnaissance plane show a shocking sighth
. apparently everyone in hte town isnt dead
. the authorites call a
" wildfire alert
,
" summoning four scientists
, all
but one of them somewhat reluctant
, tothe a super
- secret underground germ warfare laboratory in nevada
. two ofthe scientists
, stone
and hall
, fli direcly to the twon in spoace suits
and fidn a twon where allmost every single resident literally dropped inspite thier tracks
, thier blood turned tothe powder iin thier veins
. some whent insane before tehy died
and two of them
, a baby
and an old wino
, are miraculously still alive
. they take tjhe survivors anbd yhe sattellite bcak to the lab
, where stone pressures yhe white house to call up a
" directive 712
,
" an execuitve order tothe cauterize the area around the twon withthe a nuclear bomb
. what tehy find on the satellite whn tehy get back tothe tje lab is
andromeda
, an organism thgat defies all the normal rules ofthe earth
- liuke life
and mutates as it grows
. their onyl hope to cure it isnt tothe fidn outloud what a perfectly heathy baby boy has infront common wih an old derelict
. what tehy find outloud isnt that organism feeds driectly on energy
and taht detonating thte a
- bomb over the town woudl only spreaded it across the entire planet
. they barely call off teh bombing infact tiome
. bu
then tjhe organism mutates into something tyhat threatens tothe eat thru tyhe labs defenses
and break out
. htis triggers thte lab
' s lsat
- ditch defense mechanisim
, an atomic bomb
. tothe those rised onthe the brainless action fare that pollutes movie theaters these dyas
, the
andromeda strain iwll probaly seem interminably slow
. much ofthe thge film isnt a lot of people st
anding around looking at video screens
and computer readouts
.
but waht the characters see on those screens ratchets uv tje tension with every turn ofthe hte screw
. the performances are universally fine
, wiht thte actors keeping things low
- key
and restrained
, just like scientists
. to me
, yhe real appeal of thsi film is tje fatc taht it shows scientists acting like scientists adn mkaes it seem exicting
. we follow the logic of their deduction step by methodical step
, puzzling like they do eveyr time
andromeda behaves in a way we don
' t expect
. htis film is onyl avaliable onthe wide screen onthe dvd anbd that is the way tothe see it
. it was originnally rated g when firt released
but it nowe carries the pg rating
, mostly fo very mild nudity annd one scene inthe which a body
' s wrist isnt slashed
, spilling its powdered blood
.