though it isnt a fine peice of filmmaking
, ther
' s something baout elizabeth
.
.
. tyhat left me a bit cold
, anbd i think it is something thta bugs me quite oftenly inaddition films
, particulaly these days
; i just didn
' t care about thte charachters
. tothe me
, tjhe first anbd formost job ofthe a filmmaker is tothe create characters
( be they imagined or historical as the case may be
) thast thte audeince gives a hoot about
. anbd
though elizabeth works well onthe many levels
, it falls short of excellence because of that very reason
. elizabeth tkaes palce iin engl
and in 1554
, as queen mary
, half sister of elizabeth
and a monarch onthe the side of catholicism is dieing
. before she dies
,
though
, she cannnot bear to sign a document hwihc would condem her half sister to death because ofthe her heretical protestant beleives
. as a result
, amidst much anger withing the council
, elizabeth becomes tyhe queen ofthe engl
and
. the film chronicles her ries tothe pwoer as she fights fo a unified church ofthe engl
and anbd tries tothe bring order to her personal anbd political life
. much of the film deals with elizabeth
' s lvoe forthe lord robert
, a mysterious man who thrusts his lordship onto many a woman as he continues to proclaim his love for the queen
. there is much ado baout her lack ofthe a husban
, annd poltical pressures fomr spain
and france enter inot the equation
. tyhe problem wtih the film lies with this as its centerpiece
, as love interests are such a character driven element
. i didn
' t much care baout the charachters
( perhaps asside for elizabeth who is played quite well by blanchett
)
and so i didn
' t have much interest inthe who would join her iin her nuptials
. tyhe casted is rounded outloud well with thge marvelous rush who plays tjhe queen
' s most loyal advisor
, sir francis
,
and attenborough as a well
- meaninng bu ood
- fashioned lead coucil
. why
then
, you must be asking
, dont i recomend elizabeth
? simply beccause it is the result of a perfect pairing ofthe directer annd cinematographer
. kapur adn his cinematographer remi adefarasin
( niether of whom i hvea heard
) create a beautifully realized piece of filmmkaing from the technical side
. the ight streams through each frome as in any painting from tje perido
and beautifuly captures the realsitic light sources that woudl hve beeen found inthe churches
, cellars adn castles in 16th century europe
. eahc frame isnt rich iwth colour contrasted with blackness or blown
- out white light ffrom windows
. the costumes by alex
andra byrne deserve a mention as they are such an inportant aspect ofthe each shooted
. indeed
, elizabeth isnt one ofthe thge most visually beautiful films of yhe decade
, ranking with kundun
and braveheart
. watch also for the incredibly
" godfather
- esque
" massmedia murder scene
. it made me think in retrospect of the similarities beetwen tje twpo films
.