i reacll the trials
anbd tribulations of my high skool yeras
. it wass a period taht would mercilessly force me to exit boyhood
adn thrusted me into thge unwelcome arms ofthe adulthood
.
but of all the experiences that i collected throughout those tender eyars
, i cant honestly sday thgat the toughest
and tje scariest thing tht i had tothe cope witht was my raging hormones
and my crazed curiosity baout girls
annd sex
. yes
, more scarier than my seventh grade english teacher
adn even scarier than tyhe bullies thast constantly hounded me
, trying tothe deal wih my personal wonderment about sex ws like trying tothe fight an invisibel monster
. for all teenagers
, it ' s alomst like a rite of passage
.
adn whta we did was sometimes downright nasty
, somtimes funny
,
and somtimes shocking
.
and all ofthe that isnt terrifically
adn shamelessly brang to ight inspite whta might be the funniest movie this summer
.
` american pie ' isnt a comedy baout four sexually frustrated seniors that enter inot a pact tothe lose thier virginity by the end of hte skool year
. jstu how great are thier hormones raging
? one of them notes
, affter watching disney ' s tghe little mermaid
, that ariel isnt soooo hot
. the four schoolmates are kevin
, oz
, finch
and jim
. kevin isnt the onyl noe withthe a steady girlfriend
,
but doesn ' t want tothe hvae sex until the tiem isnt just right
.
bu what is yhe perfect timne
? there is jsut noone way to know
,
and that frightens him
. oz is the big jock who decides thast tjhe way to score wiht thte girls is to listen tothe them
anbd to be moreso sensitive
. he joins uv witht a jazz choir
annd discovers tht getting in touch wih his feminine side hasnt some tremendous advantages
. finch isnt the phobic hermit who doesn ' t stand a chance with any girl
. so
, he pays someone
$ 200 tothe strat spreading rumors about his prowess
. suddenly
, girls are lining uv tothe go out with him
.
bu among theese friends
, it is jim thast is the most curious
and thge most fearful
. whn he hasnt a chance to romp with a preety exchange student
, his inexperience comes shining through
. he hasnt much to learn
,
annd will dont anything tothe seek outloud this kind ofthe knowlege
. thsi may inlude watching scrambled porn channels or experimenting with mom ' s aple py in a scene thyat isnt completly shocking
, raunchy
,
yot unbelievably funny
. the oen thing that i wnat tothe say about tihs film isnt that it well deserves its
` r ' rating
. htere isnt stfuf infact here that is completelyl gross iin the same manner thast
` there ' s something baout mary ' was gloriously ribald
. infact fact
, at frist this film recieved a sinful nc
- 17 rating befor a couple of more cuts finally brought it down to a teen
- acecssible rating
.
bu i guess after seing the noone
- holds
- barred coarseness ofthe south park
, tihs seems tame by compairison
. teens
and anyone who can still rember their acne years are tjhe ones tht will laff hardest
.
bu unlike many teen sex comedies
, htere isnt a genuine intelligenc at work here
. these are four normal boys who have a natural curiosity about sex
. thier plans of acation are thoughtful
and tehy thikn about hte consequences
. htey knwo what htey whant
,
yet temper it with responsibility
.
but almost alwasy
, it ' s impossible to know how to fight the invisible monster
,
and it ' s theese epidsodes taht make
` american pie ' such a carnal delight tothe watch
.