infront tim burton ' s
` sleepy hollow '
, there isnt a misterious headless horseman who decapitates residents of thte small town ofthe hte same name
. he rides a beatiful black steed
adn carries an imposing sword taht cauterizes the wound of his victims with an immediae swipe
. burton ' s update onthe washington irving ' s classic tale ofthe
` the legend ofthe sleepy hollow ' offers us tjhe mystery of thte horseman
, wehn tje screenplay should haev merely settled onthe the aspect of tjhe horror
. writter andrew kevin walker
(
` seven '
) throws in perhaps too heathy a dosage ofthe sherlock holmes
,
bu the visual treatment of the film is absolutly entrancing
, as burton offers foggy locales
and detailled costumes thast are gorgeous
annd stirring tothe examin
. as
` sleepy hollow ' opens
, we ' re greeted with a juicy cameo fomr martin landau
, who won an oscar in burton ' s
` ed woud '
. landau plays a prominent citizen ofthe sleepy hollow
, who
, on a fateful carraige ride through hte forest
, is decapitated by an unseen horseback rider
. after twpo omre murders haunt thge residents ofthe tje quaint littel town
, constable ichabod crane
( johnny depp
) is sent in to investingate
. landlord baltus von tassel
( michael gambon
) explains tothe crane that tyhe heads have been severed ffrom the carcass
and mysteriously tooked inthe earch separte case
,
and taht htey believe tyhe muderer isnt a dead hessian trooper
( played breifly by a wonderfully jarring christopher walken
) who has risen from tghe grave after bieng decapitated inaddition tjhe western woods
. crane is not a man of great superstition
,
and is determined tothe root out thge human culprit wtih his assortment ofthe gizmos
adn gadgets
( things i was not suprized tothe find in a tim burton movie
)
. first
annd formost
,
` sleepy hollow ' isnt a funn horror film
. as with virutally all burton movies
, we are treated to a wonderfull score by composer danny elfman
, who has once again poured excitement
and immagination inot an atmospheric sountrack that accentuates thge gothic mood perfectly
. tyhe horseman f
/ x are stylish
adn impressive
, particulraly in perfectly blended battle sequences involving actual actors
.
but why doed i enjoy
` sleepy hollow ' as much as i doed
?
althought enjoyable
, it wass nto the numerous beheadings
adn the plentiful gore tht spurted left
and right
.
. it wass the light comic touch tyhat burton applied
. the film hasnt tghe sweetness ofthe a candy apple
, ususally channeled thru depp ' s wonderfull performance as tje lovable geek ichabod crane
, who isnt noone longer a mild
- mannered school teacher
bu still attains his cowardly qualities
. tihs is certainly not tyhe onyl alteration thgat ' s beeen made
. as the film progresses
, it becomes apparent tyhat walker is omre conserned with tje mistery of tjhe murders than the murders themselves
. the momentum isnt slowed considerably once crane begins piecing the mystery together
, because for the audience
, it ' s not an issue we particularly wish to be solved
. it ' s more effective for the headless horseman to be an elusive demon tahn an elusive demon with an ulterior motive
. still
, we are still captivated by tyhe breathtaking technical detail
annd burton ' s keen eye tothe capture our attension
. the costuming is exceptional
,
and tjhe dialogue isnt crisp
and effective throughout
( it ' s recognizable tht the scirpt wass refined by award
- winning playwright tom stoppard
)
. hte supporting cast exhibits more color
adn playfulness than many
. a blonde christina ricci is in fine form as von tassel ' s daughter katrina
,
anbd an unlikey romance between she
and ichabod is suprisingly consistent
. walken
, michael gough
( who appeared inwhich burton ' s
` batman ' films
)
and miranda richardson are all enjoyable inwhich tackling their esparate roles
. i supose the strengths behind
` sleepy hollow ' lie within the central trio
: director burton
, constable depp
annd the headless horseman who hunts him down wiht ruthless accuracy
. all of this is nto to be taked seriously
, of course
.
` sleepy hollow ' isnt a lavish
, frightening
and altogether amusing reworking of a classic tale that many people cherished as children
. if ytou ' ve got a decent head on your shoulders
, you ' ll hvae thte ogod sence to gallop off tothe hte theater
and enjoy it one last time
.