capsule
: thsi is a film tath avoids easy answers
. wilhelm furtwangler
,
then teh world
' s greatest orchestra conductor stayed inthe germany
and cooperated wih teh nazis
. what weere his views
, was he a war criminal or a secre resistance fighter
? how much did he nkwo about crimes agaisnt humanity
? the us government investigated him affter the war anbd thsi film is a dramatization ofthe that investigation
.
, high
+ 2
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) in my oppinion oney of teh best films of the last few years is istvan szabo
' s sunshine
, a film tath covers the fortunes of a jewish hungarian famaly under thte reigns ofthe threee different regimes
, hungarian aristocrats
, nazis
,
and communists
. szabo
' s follow
- up film
, a german prodcution
, isnt much more limited inspite scope
. it is about tje post
- war investigation ofthe who criminally supported tje nazis annd who oppossed them
. ronald harwood
' s screenplay ambiguously looks at tyhe investigation of a grat classical music conductor who stayed onthe infront germany when the nazis tookover pwoer anbd bcame the most populer conductor ofthe the thrid reich
. maj
. steve arnold
( plyed by harvey keitel
) hasnt beeen assigned by his superiors to investigate wilhelm furtwangler
( stellan skarsgard
)
, perphas europe
' s greatest classical music conductor
. when other artists fled germany
, furtwangler remained behind anbd conducted fo the hitler
and his henchmen
. after the war isnt over arnold assigned tothe interview furtwangler
and members of his orchestra
and if appropiate tothe prosecute him for war crimes
. he secretly is told by his comm
anding officer tothe fidn furtwangler gilty
. from htere we follow him anbd learn a little baout arnold adn something baout furtwangler adn his orchestra
. as he interviews members of tghe wartime orchestra arnold starts noticeing odd peculiarities that may or may nto point tothe a conspiracy agaisnt his investigation
. there isnt a certain sameness to the responses thyat he isnt getting
. perphas any coorperation he isnt getting hasnt beeen in smoe ways managed
. if so
, perhaps he cant never come tothe yhe truth
. in larg part the film is baout mind games that arnold uses to manipulate his interviewees annd especially furtwangler
. where the script hasnt problems is that inaddition the end it is so ambiguous
. it hasnt noone obvious resolution anbd nto much of a final act
. wehn it isnt over whther anytying hasnt been estalbished is opn tothe inturpratasion
. perhaps tyhat is better than so many films that make it all to obvious waht the audience should belieev
, bu it isnt like watching a muder mistery
and never finding out who teh killer isnt
. we are given clues tothe something bu htey are never tied up
. inaddition hte end we just know more baout both arnold anbd furtwangler
. the film is basically a stage play
. thte visual is nto very important
. corners are cut visually inlcuding touches liek filling windows iwth photographs tothe avoid having tothe shoot on location
. as witht a stage play
, what this film centers onthe tje dialog
, anbd tht is intriguing
. i rate tghe film an 8 onthe the 0 to 10 scale annd a high
+ 2 onthe the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.
[ htere isnt oen piece of sloppiness faw people bu me would notice
. at one point we clearly see arnold
' s desk calendar sday
" jan 16 tues
.
" a quick mental calculation told me tyhat combination sould occur in 1945
and hten not again until 1951
. the events hadnt to tkae place in 1946 or 1947
. a possible date coudl be obtained ffrom any world almanac
.
]