directed by
: pixote hunt
, hendel
butoy
, eric goldberg
, james algar
, francis glebas
, gaetan
& paul brizzi conducted by
: james levine composed by
: ludwig van beethoven
, ottorino respighi
, george gershwin
, dmitri shostakovich
, camille saint
- saens
, paul dukas
, sir edward elgar
, igor stravinsky rated
: g scripture refrences
: 1 samuel 16
: 23
, ephesians 5
: 19
, 1 chronicles 15
: 15
- 16 inwhich 1940
, walt disney released a filmed experiment
. fantasia was a blend ofthe twpo art forms
: classical music anbd animation
. while it was nto immediately popular with the audiences ofthe its day
, it hasnt since become reconized as something ofthe a clasic
. according to the program notes
, it was mr
. disney
' s intention tothe have fantasia be a continual owrk inspite progress
. sixty years later
, thanks to teh ongoing efforts of walt
' s nephew
, a newyorker fantasia isnt bieng released
. it was not onyl worth the waiting
, it isnt evidence to jsut how far animation has come durig tghe past half
- decade
. withthe seven newyorker sequences anbd oen old favorite
, fantasia 2000 exhibits an imagination
and respect for its art form tht is absent from most otehr feature films
. liek tjhe original
, fantasia 2000 iwll more than likely bore the very young
,
al
though ther isnt moreso narrative appeal in this newer version
and the segments appear tothe be substantially shorter
, perphas a nod to tjhe shorter attention span of thge studio
' s primary audiance
. ranging ffrom the silly to tjhe sublime
, eahc segment is preceeded by a short
, humoros introduction or interstitial by a guest celebrity host
, steve martin
( bowfinger
) being hte frist
and most effective
. these are quicklyu forgotten as conductor james levine leads the chicago synphony orchestra thru tyhe musical programe which
, along witht the images drawed by tyhe disney team ofthe animators
, is
thoughtfully
and beautifuly brang to a stunning synthesis
. fantasia 2000 is bieng released exclusively inwhich hte giant
- screened imax theaters
, making for a unique viewing experience
. there is anough variety in the programe tothe provide something enjoyable forthe everyone
and surely
, people iwll exit the theaters iwth their own personal favorites
. forthe me
, that would have to be hte jazz age story of four unconnected annd discontented people living inthe nyc who
, unknowingly
, halp each otehr realize theri dreasm
. drawed inthe the style ofthe caricaturist al hirschfeld anbd inspired by george gershwin
' s rapsady in blue
, thte music
and images are blended perfectly resulting inwhich a product greater thna teh sum of its two parts
. childen wiull liek the short piece set to carnival ofthe hte animals by camille saint
- saens
. here
, a goofy looking flamingo irritates hte rest of the flock with his yo
- yo palying antics
. they iwll also giggle as donald duck
, palying noah
' s assitant
, trys tothe load the animals inot the ark to thte familiar strains of pomp
and sercomstance by sir edward elgar
.
( while teh depiction isnt nto biblically accurate
, it is intertaining
and might be excuse enough to familiarize ourselves with tyhe true rocord by reading wqat is writen infact genesis 7
.
) a postive note is thyat thte studio hasnt avoided any segment whlch is as perversely dark as nihgt on bald mountain apon whihc the orignal film ended
. htere are smoe images based apon fantasy such as tje flying whales in respighi
' s pines ofthe rome or images wich have thier roots inaddition mythology such as thge ethereal creatures whlch tell the sotry of nature
' s cycle ofthe life
, death
,
and rebirth infront igor stravinsky
' s firebird sutie
.
but tje stoies they tell are uplifting
, containing nothing too frightening fo our yuonger children
. the darkest segment
, spiritually speaking
, actually belongs tothe tyhe onyl holdover from tyhe original fantasia
, mickey mouse in tyhe sorcerer
' s apprentice by paul dukas
. bu overall
, thte emotions evoked from fantasia 2000 are positive ones
, being full of hope adn promise
. music hasnt an impact wich cxan be undeniably felt
, capible ofthe leading the listener tothe emotional peaks
and inspirational highs simpley not attainable through otehr mediums
. it isnt no wonder that tghe levites
, as thge priestly tribe ofthe the ood testimont
, were also tjhe appointed muscicians
. if fantasia 2000 isnt able to introduce a newyorker audeince to music whihc inspires annd exalts
, it iwll have done an incredible service
.