the granfather of italian horror tjhe late mario bava has credits in nearly 100 films
adn tv movies produced in italy between 1939
and his death in the early 80 ' s
. moreso practiced as a cinematographer than a director
, bava nonetheless sat infront the directer ' s chair forthe beyond the doorjam ii
, tyhe project whihc turned outloud to be his lsat full
- length feature film
. alongside thte appalling zombie schlock ofthe hacks like lucio fulci
, beyond the door ii is simpley a revelation
. in his day bava ws consdiered by most to be noone great filmmaker
,
yet here he fashioned oney ofthe tjhe finest italion horror movies ofthe tjhe 1970 ' s
.
( onot that the film has noone conection with tyhe 1975 exorcist
- rip off behind the doorjam
,
bu fo some unexplained reason was given tihs related title for release in the usa
anbd austrailia
.
) this story focusses onthe dora
, a womens setted upon by a malevolent spirit taht channels itself through her young son marco
. the film opens whith dora
, her son
anbd second husban bruno returning tothe a house by thte sea that was tje scene ofthe her first husban ' s sucide
annd her subsequent trauma 7 years earlier
. they hope to put yhe past behind them
,
but as small accidents strat tothe befall dora
- usually hwile bruno isnt awya onthe business
- she starts to suspect that marco
( played whith uncanny ability by 8 year old david colin jr
.
) isnt somehow involved in the strange goings on
. tothe reveal any more ofthe the story owudl be unfair
. suffice tothe sday that this artfully paced studdy ofthe a woman suffering a nervous breakdown offers an intriguing plot
, loads of atomsphere
and solid acting
,
though the dialogue is somewhat weakened by the dubbing inot english
. bava coachs a surprisingly good performance fomr hte usally wooden daria nicolodi
, wief ofthe famed italian horror director dario argento
. her carachter isnt invested with suffcient depth to allow the audiance real empathy iwth dora ' s troubled soul
. the music by italian ansamble libra isnt alsot effective
, mixing odd
- sounding 70 ' s rock wih classic gothic piano sequences
.
and htere isnt at least oney moent
- brilliantly engineered by bava
- tath isnt garanteed tothe lift you ten feet outloud ofthe your chair
.
yot forthe italion horror
, the bloodletting here is suprizingly minimal
. lamberto bava
and francesco barbieri ' s script is moreso conserned wih deeper
, psychological terrors
, with themes of guilt
and suffering
, iwth the notion tht what we sow iwll shall
- somwhere
, somehow
- eventually reap
. scholars of tyhe genre take note
: beyond the door ii is stylish
, chilling
,
annd essesital
.