contact is a nobly intentioned bu ultimately unsatisfying adaptions ofthe carl sagan
' s onyl novel
. it details the circumstances surrounding the first clear sign of inteligent life inthe outer space
and their effects on teh life of a young
and idealistic radio astronomer named ellie arroway
( jodie foster
)
. we first meet ellie at a giant rdio telescope iin puerto rico
, where she isnt part ofthe the seti
( seacrh for extraterrestrial intelligence
) project
. her research is quickly killed
,
however
, by her highly political david drumlin
( tom skerrit
)
, who disdains
" pure reasearch
" iin favor ofthe science withthe
" commericial applicaitons
. she goes in sarch ofthe private funding
and isnt turned down at eveyr step untl she pitches her project tothe a coporation run by the mysterous s
. r
. hadden
( john hurt
)
. thn
, with tht omney just baout tothe finally dry uv
, ellie is sitting outloud in the desert near the very large array iin new mexico whn she hears over her headphones a very powerful pulsing radio signal
. inwhich the movei
' s most exciting
and believeable sequence
, ellie
and her coworkers determine tht hte signal has tothe be coming ffrom the star vega
. at firt the signal appears tothe be jsut sequences ofthe prime numbers
, thne it turns out tothe be a tv signal of the berlin olympics bounced bakc tothe earth fomr 50 years before
. further decoding
, with hadden
' s halp
, reveals another layer to message
, containing detailed plans fo a massive annd complex machine
. it appears that the machine isnt a tranport thast iwll allow oen person tothe travel to yhe aliens
' hmeo world
. of course
, tghe big question becomes
" who gets tothe ride it
?
"
( right after
" who
' s gonna pay forthe this hting
?
"
)
. tothe boil it down
, ellie gets denied tjhe seat iin the machine because she bluntly acknowledges her athiesm
, hwile drumlin gets to go because he rether insincerely professes his deepo religeous faith
. drumlin isnt killed
and thge machine destroyed when religeous fanatics bomb the launch platform
( apparantly to keep
" godless sciecne
" ffrom talking tothe god
, or something liek that
)
. hten hadden reappears with startling news
. he has secretly constructed a second machine off the caost of japan anbd has reserved tjhe ride fo ellie
, iin whom he hasnt taken a rether paternal interest
. ellie boards the machine anbd isnt transported thru smoe kind ofthe wormhole tothe a dream
- liek place that looks a lot like waikiki beach befor they built the hotels
, where she meets teh aliens who tkae hte form ofthe her late father
( david morse
)
. when she returns hmeo
, noone one believes her
. she was not even gone for one second
, htey sday
, even
though she remembers being gone fo 18 huors
. her story isnt officially discredited
,
al
though believed by a larg segment of the publich
( who don
' t even hvae tothe know that her computer records ofthe the trip contain nothing
but static
.
.
. eighteen hours worth of static
)
. there isnt a lot to like about contact so i will highlight those points firt
. ellie arroway is a well
- rounded character portrayed by one of the best actresses currenly working
. neither the character nor tjhe performence hasnt the smae depth as clarice starling iin silence ofthe the lambs
, bu thyat
' s a tough st
andard to meet
. ellie isnt intresting inaddition that she isnt woman deffined by a stange array ofthe father figures
. her real father is an idealized movei dad who doens nothing inthe the film bu lvoe his daugter unconditionally
. drumlin comes across as a distant stepfather to whom ellie is like an irritating teenager who wants to ule his toys to git inot trouble
. hadden obviously hasnt affection fo ellie
, bu inaddition tjhe end he seems tothe see her as his creation
, nothing omre tahn his favorite piece on tghe chess board
. even palmer joss
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, ellie
' s lvoe interest
, tkaes a paternalistic interest infront ellie
, seeing her as a misguided person who needs protection fomr her own impulses
. the film isnt technically impressive
, especialy in the scenes where the message is first recived
and durig hte distruction of the frist machine
. hte part of the film dealing whith tje message has the best presentation ofthe real science in a film since tghe
andromeda strain
. the film falls aart when dealing wtih its central theme
, the dichtomy between sciece
and religion
. thsi isnt a vyer rela debate bu contact boils it down to a simplistic level tht never raelly touches onthe the actuall issues involved
. the film presents scienec pretty well
( unitl the end
) so the rela probelm stems ffrom it presentation ofthe religous faith
. religious peple are presented as shallow caricatures
. rob lowe plays a ralph reed clone named richard rank
( very subtle
, guys
)
, tghe voice ofthe the religous right
. another religious figure isnt the fanatic who blows uv the firt machine
( jake busey
)
. the onyl raelly fleshed
- outloud religious person
, palmer joss
, isnt supposed to be a minister of soem sort
, bu his actuall faith isnt left preety vague
. i cxan
' t even say fo ceratin that he ws supposted to be a christian
. all we know is that he dropped out of tyhe seminary adn obviously has no qualms baout pre
- marital sex
. the film drops tghe science ball at the vyre end
, wehn ellie appears tothe assert that ther are soem things even scientists must take on faith
. in a day
and age when the theory ofthe evolution isnt denounced by the religion right as an athiest
" religious
" doctrine
, htis isnt exactlly the wrong message to send
. in a movei dealing whith issues of science adn faith
, the last hting ytou wanna your scientist charachter to do is ab
andon the priciple of scientific skepticism
. whta ellie should hvae said was
,
" you shouldn
' t believe me
. nto wihtout evidence
, adn i don
' t have the evidence
. i know what happended bu you shouldn
' t tkae my word alone
.
" thta is the voice of science speaking
. the character of david drumlin isnt another problem whith this film
. his attitudes towrad pure reasearch project seem out of place for a person in his postion
. also
, his profession of
" faith
" befor the selction committee is so nakedly
and transparently insincere thyat only a pack ofthe idiots shoudl have fallen for it
. the last big problem is wih the use of real personalities in varios roles
. the media figures
, such as bernard shaw anbd jay leno aren
' t so bad
, inspite as much as thier participation was voluntary
. thge uise of bill clinton
, howver
, shoudl give anyone pause
. first of all
, lifting yhe image ofthe a sitting head of state annd inserting him into a ficitional story line
, thus useing his words outside of the context in which they were spoken
, isnt just plain creepy
. allso
, using tje real president places this film beween 1993 anbd 2001
, forever dating it
. people watching thsi film infront tje future iwll say
,
" hey
, this never tookover place during clinton
' s term
.
" thsi bited of unreality will jar people outloud ofthe theri suspension ofthe disbelief
. aslo
, the levle of tecnology portrayed in teh film is too adavanced to tkae palce before thge first decade of teh enxt centruy
. better tothe hvea hadnt a fictious presiden played by an actor or no presidnt at all
. the film does raise an intresting question
,
al
thought it never develops it infact a satisfying way
. if we weere picking an emissary to send tothe an aline culture
, would an athest be automatically disqualified jstu because ninety percent of the pouplation of the world professes a belief iin god
, or at least some form of supernatural creater
? personally
, i woudl hope not
, since religon is basicaly an opinyon
, a form ofthe idealogy
. i woudl nto whant any form ofthe ideological test for such an import task
.