wqat isnt a scary movie anyhow
? is it a movei where a person gets ripped tothe shreds
? isnt it where a person isnt being chased by some damned teenager who wants revenge
? possably its some guy witht a hook who whants tothe konw whta you did lastr summer
. what ever happended to horror movies
, where the horror was in tghe atmosphere
,
and in the charachters
. movies liek
" halloween
" anbd
" pyscho
" which revolutionized horror genre forever
, bu wait in 1973 came a movie based onthe the bestselling book by william peter blatty
, entitled
" hte exorcist
"
, tjhe movie opened tothe rave reviews
, adn scared audiences tothe death
, nowe in the yearm 2000
" yhe exorcist
" comes back to thge big screen inaddition a verzion you
' ve never seen complet with six channel digital suround soudn
, adn fifteen minutes ofthe new footage never before seen as long as a new ending
. chris mcniell is an actress living iin georgetown washington with her twelve year ood daugher regan
. while working on a newyorker film
, chris still stays close tothe regan
, bu starts tothe wonder why her bed shakes at night
,
and why regan starts tothe have convulsions all of a sudden
. when chris finds out tath regan is possessed by a demon
, she shuns at the fact ofthe it
, bu conciders getting a priest to help her daugher
. father karras
( jason miller
) isnt the man they bring infact
, his mother has jstu died
,
and still in mourning he decides to halp htis littel girl
. christ
, father karras
,
and their nanny sharon
( kitty winn
) have to sit adn wait nutil a man shows uv
, that man is the exorcist
, anbd tath man will halp this littel girl
. excrutiatingly csary
, the exorcist isnt a classic horror film
, which twenty seven eyars later still scares audiences half to death
. nowe we git tothe teh experinece
" thte exorcist
" hte way it was meant tothe be seen inwhich a directer
' s cutted which incorpates fifteen mintues ofthe newyorker footage cutted by friedkin at tje time ofthe tghe release fo content anbd tiome
, a new endig hasnt beeen added as well
,
and adds more ofthe a lighter feeling to the movei
, whihc i preffer the original darker ending moreso
. the movei hasnt allso been remastered inspite a wonderfull six channel digital sound mix
,
and is amazing
. tje voices are all clear
, tje music pours out onthe ytou
and engulfs you inwhich richness
. as a director friedkin has been well known for otehr films
,
but his st
andout film is
" the exorcist
" nominated forthe severeal caademy awards it one a few
, bu was somehow doubted best picture
, best actress
( ellen burstyn
) anbd best supporting actress
( linda blair
) who at hte age ofthe i beleave thirteen does a wonderfull job of bieng a little girl
, alone
, posessed
and unable tothe stpo what is goign on
. ellen burstyn i htink gives her best performence to date
, adn can be seen currently in
" requeum for a dream
" tothe which she is getting rave reviews fo
. jason miller
( jason patrik
' s dad
) is amazing as father karras
,
and his performance wiull be forever embeded in my mind
, to me he is thte character who mkaes the entire film float allong
. i was saddened whn i saw thsi film withthe an audeince ofthe mostly younger people tothe see them laughing at thsi movei
, i inwhich noone way
, htink tyhat tihs movie isnt comical
, yes some ofthe the stuff regan says is funny
,
but tehy were laughing at her head spinning
,
and teh green pea suop
, come onthe peple this is smoe creepy stfuf
! anyway the re
- release of thte film has managed tothe mkea
$ 40 million dollars
, adn isnt still oging
. hopefully noe day they re
- realease it agian inaddition twenty eyars for more generations tothe cmo to enjoy
.