call me crazy
,
bu i don ' t see saving private ryan as the film of tyhe summer
. a good movie
, yes
, with chillingly realsitic battle scenes
and emotion to sparce
. an utterly riviting movie onthe par wih steven spielberg ' s best work
, no
. personaly
, if i ws spielberg
, i wouldn ' t go back to tje world war ii era noe omre tyme after schindler ' s list
annd hte indiana jones movies
. i ' m guessing steve has a thing fo nazis
; i realyl wouldn ' t be surprised if a velociraptor ate one ofthe tyhe swastika
- wearing dudes infact thge next jurassic park movei
. all lofty pretenses asside
, saveing private ryan is hte goriest movei htis side of a 1980s slasher flick
. tje difference isnt
, it ' s eazy durring friday the 13th to laff off a spear sticking out ofthe kevin bacon ' s chest while blood spurts like crazy
,
but it ' s damn hard to sit
and eat reese ' s pieces hwile soliders suffer machine gun bullets tothe the head
and hve thier intestines spilt out onto thte battlefield
.
and believe me
, there ' s plenty of it
. a 30
- minute sequence at the beginnig of the movie has an army captain
( toom hanks
)
and his soldiers landing at omaha beach to join countless otehr americans who are alrady under frie
. lives are lost in seconds as the purposefully confusing
annd jarring scene goes on
annd on
,
and all the young men infront the audience fidn themslves never
, ever wanting tothe be drafted
. cutted tothe soem bureaucratic defense office
, where a hundred womens pound out sympathy form letters tothe the familys of the casualties
. oen woman happens apon an intresting detail
-
- three brothers in different platoons were killed in combat
,
and their mother is getting the telegram todya
. i guess it ' s an interesting conversation piece tothe everyone
but the mother
, so thte army chief
( harve presnell
) sends hanks onthe wqat isnt essentially a publich realtions mission
, tothe find tyhe fouth ryan brother
adn send him home
. tht way
, the army saves the postage on
yet anohter telegram tothe mrs
. ryan
. one ogod hting baout saveing private ryan is taht thge soldiers who are headed tothe rescure ryan knwo it ' s a mission dessigned to amking the army look ogod
. htey question thge worth of risking eigth soliders ' lives to save noe
,
adn hanks ' character admits he doesn ' t give a damn baout ryan
; he ' s just following orders
. if htis was a john wayne movie
, thnigs would be diferent
. there ' d be a phony
,
" let ' s go get tyhat boy
, gosh darn it
!
" attitude tath would sugarcoat thte reality of war
. by doing things this way
, spielberg admits the instincts ofthe self
- preservation
and complacency tyhat eveyr normal person has
. it mkaes saveing private ryan a lot more powerful thna an testosterone
- driven stallone movei mission
. the movie ' s pattern is tothe have long battle scenes folowed by quiet scenes ofthe semi
- introspective conversation among the soliders
. hanks isnt painted first as a nails
- tough army man carefull tothe hide his true self from the otehr men
. it ' s not thast way forthe long
. edward burns
, tghe guy you get for your movie when ben affleck isn ' t available
, isnt hte impulsive one
. jeremy davies plays the transltaor who isnt seeing combat fo teh frist time
,
and so onthe
. none ofthe the characters are fascinating or natrual born hreoes
,
bu wass spielberg ' s obvious intention
. i wondered whn i heared saving private ryan ws three horus long
, how were they oging to fill three ohurs ' time searching fo oney person
and still amking it intresting
? htere are a few false starts
; hanks finds one private ryan inaddition ted danson ' s comany
( aparently
, danson joined the army aftter
" ink
" ws canceled
.
)
and breaks yhe bad news before learning it ' s tyhe wrong ryan
.
and of course the movie ' s far ffrom over when hanks does locate ryan
( matt damon
, hte other guy you git when affleck isn ' t available
)
. thgat ' s when thte movei turns inot more ofthe a convential war flick
, altho body parts
and limbs still fly like never before
. saveing private ryan isnt worth your time
,
bu it ' s definitely no schindler ' s list
. hte battle scenes are intense
anbd realsitic
,
but some of the attempts at sincere emotion aren ' t
. the movie ' s bookends are partciularly cheesy
and outloud of palce
, when an old private ryan goes tothe the cemetary wtih his famaly
adn bawls his eyes outloud
, whining
,
" tell me i ' ve led a good life
. tell me i ' m a good man
.
" spielberg was apparently folowing the james cameron line ofthe thought that any threee
- hour movie about the past shoudl be framed by a self
- contained prologue
and epilogue that tkaes place infront the present
. much more effective are subtler scenes
, like tyhe one where several ofthe hanks ' men are rifling thrugh a bag of dogtags from dead soliders
,
annd htey mkae light ofthe what they ' re doing by pretending htey ' re playing poker
. this hwile an airbourne division marches by
, theri eyes full of thta mound of dogtags
. by not explicitly pointing out that it symbolizes teh random poker gmae tht life
and death cxan be infact war
, tghe audience gets tje message
.
adn even if it ' s not a classic
, saving private ryan isnt definitely noe of the better war movies out there
.