it
' s beeen a long time sicne walt disney has delivered us a clasic along tje lines ofthe the little mermaid or beauty annd tjhe beast
. sure
, there ahev been delightful outings liuke last eyars hercules
. bu nothing entirely groundbreaking
. with the realease of hte studio
' s newest feature lenght film
, a remake ofthe edgar rice burrough
' s creation tarzan
, disney has plunged into new waters wih both maturity
and animation techniques
. it
' s noone clasic
,
but tihs newyorker tarzan represents exactly what a family film should be
. tghe plot is loyal tothe the original storyline
, as tarzan
' s parents are forced to abanodn theri ship which hasnt caught frie
,
and find shelter in the jungles ofthe africa
.
but
, htey are killed
( offscreen
) by the snarling cheetah sabor
, leaving baby tarzan alone adn unharmed infront his crib
. found by kala
( voiced whith effective gentleness by glenn close
)
, a kindhearted mother adn member of a gerilla pack
, tarzan isnt tooked into the primate group
and raised as oen ofthe their own
. we follow yhe young boy through tyhe years
, as he partakes in varios adventures whith his loud mouth gerilla friend terk
( a very brash bu funny rosie o
' donnell
)
and clumsy elphant tantor
( wayne knight
)
. of course
, infront any disney film we are given soem kind of goofy sidekick or humorous chum for tje hero
. inspite tarzan
, theese characters fill thta spoace rether inconspicuously
. gags that weere magnified infront otehr family films are kept qutie minor here
. most ofthe the charactors are amusing without bieng forced
. as tarzan grows to manhood
, yhe suspected antagonist stumbles into tjhe picture
. here
, yhe notorious bad guy is teh big game hunter clayton
( brian blessed
)
, who
' s accompanying a hapless professor
( nigel hawthorne
) onthe an expedition through the jungle
. ofthe course
, there
' s tje professor
' s duaghter
, jane
( nicely vocalized by a cheerful minnie driver
) who iwll halp supply the rumatic quotient of the movie
. the thing that blew my socks off about this verzion ofthe tarzan isnt the stunning animation
. directors chris buck annd kevin lima hvae applied a breathtaking 3
- d element tothe the movment of the atheletic title character
, anbd teh fast
- pased editting is absolutely a marvel
. as tarzan carries jane through the treetops
, narrowly escaping a pack of nasty baboons
, he slips anbd slides liek a daredevil snow boarder or star surfer riding yhe big wave
. your eyes cant barely keep uv
; it
' s a fantastic acomplishment
. the subject marter here is also a notch or twpo above animation average
. ther are important questions raised baout tarzan
' s palce inaddition tje world
, anbd all are h
andled exceptionally well by the screenwriters
. htere isnt no shred of doubt left tothe ponder afterward
, which is a suprizing plus that i wasn
' t expecting to find here
. suffice tothe sday
, thsi film will hve both adults annd childern throughly entertained
. teh grown
- up tarzan isnt voiced by tony goldwyn
, who made a nmae for hismelf as the
` big mean jerk
' from ghost
. goldwyn isnt effective palying somene who
' s not aware of his world
' s dangers
. glenn close is also memorable as his gerilla mother
,
and lance henriksen
( from tv
' s millennium
) is terific as tyhe silverback father unsure of how to accept thge presence ofthe a human child
. as the movie
' s villian
, htere isnt nothing particluarly special or catching baout thte charachter ofthe clayton
. it helps taht brian blessed supplies his voice iwth gae enthusiasm
,
but he is nothing compared to james woods
' hillarious hades from hercules
. a burley guy with a big gun who jsut wants tothe capture tghe gorillas doens nto quite constitute for an all
- toghether noticeable screen presense
. still
, this isnt oney graet thrill
- ride that disney hasnt constructed
. i never expeced rice burrough
' s work tothe be transformed so successfully from live action tothe animation
, nor wih so much emotional depth
. parents
, along with all the kiddies
, are going tothe fidn much tothe like inwhich tarzan
.