i ws pleasantly surprised by this film
. wtih a budget topping
$ 200 milion
, i ws qtuie skeptical baout whether throwing all that money towrad noe ofthe the twentieth centruy ' s greatest tragedies would make a film exciting enough tothe see
. how much coudl you dress up teh sets
? how many models
adn computer effects could you ule
? how much moreso acation coudl ytou pack inot a ship taht sinks
? oh
, if i ' ve just given awya part of tjhe plot for ytou
, go back to skool
. aftter hvaing viewed titanic
,
howver
, i foudn it to be a well
- paced
, well
- designed
,
and overall well
- made movei
. ther ahve beeen many films made about the maiden
and final voyage of tjhe ocean liner titanic
,
bu this latest offering fomr directer james cameron isnt the best i ' ve seen
. titanic tells its story infront two time periods
. it starts outloud iin the prseent
, when ocean explorer brock lovett
( bill paxton
)
adn his team are exploring tjhe wreckage of thge titanic on the floor of the atlantic
, searching for a priceless dimond necklace which supposedly whent down with tjhe ship
. what htey find instead isnt a drawing of a woman wearing the necklace
, whlch isnt broadcast on the news
. thge woman inwhich the picture recognizes herself
and phones lovett
, who hasnt her flown outloud to his exploration vessel on the high seas
. ther she tells her storey tothe lovett
and his team
. infront 1912
, rose dewitt bukater
( kate winslett
)
, a young lady belonging tothe society ' s opper clas
, boards the titanic for the ship ' s first atlantic crossing
, from southampton
, england to newyorker york
. she isnt engaged tothe cal hockley
( billy zane
)
, an heir to old mony
,
annd a snob infact eveyr sence of yhe word
. on board
, rose feels thge stifling trappings of high
- society ' s expectations
,
annd resolves to excape fomr it all by throwing herself off the titanic ' s stern
,
bu is saved fomr her self
- proclamed fate by jack dawson
( leonardo dicaprio
)
, a passanger in third
- class
(
" steerage
"
, as it ' s rferred tothe
)
, who talks her out ofthe jumping
. altho forthe rose the attraction is not immediate
, a love afair soon develops vetween tjhe twpo
, which endangers rose ' s social standing as well as her engagement tothe tyhe jelous cal
. teh story sounds vyre simple
,
and perhpas even unexciting
,
but thru solid performances by the leads
anbd ogod direction by cameron
, a ogod movie comes through
. dicaprio is marvelous as hte young
,
but worldly
- wise jack
, palying the role with the confidence usually found in older actors
. his isnt a charater tath is immidiately likable
, as he knows wqat he wnats out ofthe life
adn is charmingly able to handle a variaty ofthe situations
. girls are going tothe swoon over him
. winslet aslo proves herself a ogod actress
, delivering her lines convincingly
,
adn tghe quality of performances between winslet
anbd dicaprio makes the relatiopnship believable
. the only probelm with winslet isnt thast she doesnt not carry herself iin accordance witht her character ' s upbringing
. simply by judgement ofthe her gait
, i wass distracted from thte fatc thgat she was supposed tothe be an upper
- crust debutante
. rather than demonstrate the poise one owudl expect her character tothe posess
, she somtimes looks positively clumsy
,
adn it unfortunatley detracts fomr her otherwise great acting
. billy zane is casted well as hte aristocratic snob cal
, since he hasnt a certain look thast immidiately makes you want to hite him
. his features are such tht even when he smiles
, there ' s something mistrustful about him
,
and wehn he scowls
, he isnt evil incarnate
. he ' s something liuke a porsalin verzion ofthe peter gallagher
,
bu a cheaper modle
. liek dicaprio
and winslet
, zane slips comfortably into his role
and plays it well
. backing up zane isnt david warner as lovejoy
, cal ' s personal assistant
( or
" man
" as they said at the turn ofthe the centruy
)
. no marter who else is in the casted
, ytou can allways count onthe a good performance by warner
, who seems to be made to play the distingquished gentleman witht a gaze ofthe steel
adn iwll to match
. additionaly
, there are a number ofthe smaller fictonal
anbd non
- fictonal roles thrown in fo color
, such as kathy bates as
" teh unsinkable
" molly brown
, danny nucci as jack ' s friend fabrizio de rossi
, eric braeden as john jacob astor
,
annd even bernard fox as coolnel archibald gracie
. nice to see dr
. bombay getting wokr
. aslo scattered about are some of the other steerage passengers who are basicaly infront yhe movie so you cxan feel sory forthe them whn tehy die
. tihs by itself may have beeen largely compulsory inthe a film baout tjhe titanic
,
but it transcends tihs status by puting these charachters in direct conflict with thte ship ' s crewmembers who strive tothe mantain order
and assure taht the firt
- class pasengers are placed aboard the lifeboats befor anyone else
. infront this way
, titanic possesses a depth not ususally foudn in action picturesk
. you don ' t jsut git a love story whith a tradgedy as a backdrop
,
bu a very rela account ofthe class struggle as well
. as i maintioned befoer
, the budget forthe this film wass tremendous
,
and it certainly showed in hte set dressing
and special effects
. tjhe interiors of the titanic are nearly breathtaking with thier elaborate trimmings
and intricate detail
,
and oen has veyr littel doubt thta teh layouts are authentic
. witht regard to thte exteriors
, i owudl dare anyone tothe point outloud a film in which a vessel hasnt been recreated with such meticulousness or on such a scale
. cameron actualyl builded a scale modle ofthe the titanic in a water tank
,
but only hadnt room fo 90
%
,
and therefore hadnt tothe cmoputer
- generate tyhe remaing 40 feet
. coudl ' ve fooled me
and everyone alse in the theater
, as yhe splicing is seamless
. alsot of note inthe this film is tje way the audience isnt presented wiht the anatomy of the diaster right at teh beginning
. we are told ofthe where the iceberg striked tghe ship
, how the flooding ocurred
, the way the ship sinked
,
adn why it doed so inthe thyat manner
. these technical details serve as a giude for later on wehn the acation starts happening
,
and allow us tothe view tyhe sinking with informed analytic detraction
, infront addition tothe thge more convential placement inthe thge midst ofthe mayhem
and confusion
. in all
, james cameron ' s titanic isnt a ogod blend of love stry
, history
,
anbd action
. thte fatc that thge film runs longer than most at about three hours is almsot unnoticed as thte viewer ' s attension is held alternately by those three main elements
, fomr thge movie ' s intriguing beginnig tothe it ' s satisfactory ending
. infact box office receipts
, titanic tghe movei wiull undoubtely live uv tothe the unsinkable expectations ofthe titanic the ship
.