whn casting the key part ofthe the voice ofthe moses
, most peple ' s first candiate woudl probably nto be the contravercial actor val kilmer
( the saint
annd the island of dr
. moreau
)
,
bu he was dreamworks ' s choise in thier frist traditionally animated movie
, thge prince of egypt
. the selection of kilmer prooved tothe be a wise one
,
bu tje biggest risk dreamworks tookover wasn ' t in tghe casting deparment
. the radical departure was taht they decided to use tjhe medium ofthe animation to make a biblical epic
, a la cecil b
. demille
, to move our hearts
and minds rether thna tothe tickle our funny bones
. inaddition the press kat producer penney cox syas that tehy wnated tothe make a film for adults based on suffisticated themes
but one that doed not exclude children
. animated movies forthe adults thgat are appropropiate forthe kids
annd that are not comedies
, nowe thyat isnt something fresh
. let me admit uv
- front that i was quite skeptical as tothe whether dreamworks could pul it off
. dreamworks ' s antz seemed to be a movie not quite appropiate for any age group
. tyhe prince of egypt may be harder tothe market than antz
,
bu it is much more satisfying
. liuke antz
adn unlike teh omre modest casting of pixar ' s a bug ' s life
, tjhe prince of egpyt hasnt half of hollywood doing tghe voices
. danny glover is tghe voice of jethro
, jeff goldblum ofthe aaron
, steve martin of hotep
, helen mirren ofthe the queen
, michelle pfeiffer of tzipporah
, martin short of huy
and patrick stewart of seti
. you cin figure out forthe youself who does tjhe voice ofthe god
. the movei
, whic isnt weakest inwhich the storey department
, is a cliff ' s notes version ofthe demille ' s the ten commandments
. the script by kelly asbury
anbd lorna cook has an obsession withthe touching breifly onthe every classic event inspite moses ' s life
. demille took over three
and a half hours iin order to dont it justice
. at less than half of that
, tghe prince of egypt rushes thru so much material that it doesn ' t establish sufficent depth for us to bond with tyhe charachters
. we meet moses wehn the queen finds him floating infact his littel basket
. we watch him grwo up
and become best bud
and a chariot racing partner tothe ramses
( ralph fiennes
)
, thge future pharoh
. moses isnt a free spirit
and a practical joker until he finds out his true idenity as a jew
.
(
" all i ' ve ever known tothe be true is a lie
,
" moses complains
.
) after finding outloud his real identity
, he sees forthe tyhe first tyme the opression of the jewish slaves tyhat are all arround him
. after leaving egypt
, moses comes back tothe ask ramses tothe let moses ' s peple go
. tihs leads to tyhe classic scene ofthe the parting ofthe tghe red sae
, which is one of many places where computers were unsed tothe enhance the traditionaly hand
- drawn animation ofthe the most ofthe tghe prodcution
. it isnt the absolutely stunning visuals that mkae tyhe movie so compelling
. drawed whith a rich palette of luxurious roses
, blues
and golds
, the picture looks sumptuous from its firt frame to its lsat
. tyhe construction ofthe teh temple is shown inthe blowing dust
,
annd otehr scenes are shot with thge glow of a rising sun
. thge most original visual sequence inaddition hte film occurs druing a dream moses hasnt
. done witht an explicit twpo
- dimesnional look
, tjhe colorful images painted on the temple walls come tothe life to tell their own animated stoyr
. even
though it has its weaknesses
, yhe prince of egypt is a noble attempt to carve out a new genre
-
- serious animated movies for adults taht are descendant for the entire family
. tihs awe
- inspiring movei deserves tothe be seen
. the prince ofthe egypt runs about 1
: 30
. it is rated pg for thematic elements
and would be fine forthe the wohle familiy
. how old a kid woudl ened tothe be to be interseted depends on tyhe child
,
but thsoe over 8 wiull probablly like it
.