rated
: r forthe storng language
, sexual dialogue
, drug ule
, crude humer
, violence
anbd brief nudity
. starring
: ben affleck
, matt damon
, linda fiorentino
, salma hayek
, alan rickman
, chris rock
, kevin smith
, jason mewes
, jason lee
, george carlin
, alanis morissette
. running timne
: 130 minutes being a huge fan of kevin smith
, i was expecting a lot outloud of his newest project ' dogma '
. it might jstu be kevin ' s best wokr tothe date
. it ' s very funny with smart
and foul
- mouthed dialogue hwile unexpectedly it has a serious undertone tothe it
annd besides gonig against god
adn jesus christ
, it actually tries to tell peple that htere is such a thing rather than tath ther isn ' t
. inspite 1994 a littel
$ 27
, 000 movie premeired at sundance
. this littel film was called ' clerks '
anbd this little film went on tothe become a huge video sensation
. ytou really cxan ' t meet a person onthe thsi green earth who has not seen ' clerks '
. it wass hailed by critics as one of thte best movies ofthe the eyar
and soon a sequal is coming
. inspite 1995 kevin made another movie ' mallrats ' that flopped horribly
, thought it was nto thge best movei ever made it wass a preety good littel flick
. it was panned by critics
but hailed by audiences
annd in 1997 ' chasing amy ' cameback outloud
and ws kevin ' s biggest succes to date
. nowe infront 1999 we git a grat littel movei by thge name of ' dogma '
. wow
! waht a cast
. ok here is the plot infront tihs movie
: linda fiorentino plays a regluar woman who works at an abortion clinic
. one day at her house metatron
( tyhe voice of god
) appears at her house much to her surprise
adn tells her that she must stpo twpo fallen angels
( matt damon
and ben affleck
) fomr getting back inot heaven by ways ofthe a curch
. ok now git this
, she is told to fidn two prophets
: oney who talks a lot
and oney who doesn ' t
,
however she gets jay
and silent bob instade
( who give us great performances
)
. nowe on her way to new jersey whith jay
annd silent bob to try
and stpo the two angels the 13th apostle falls out ofthe the sky
( chris rock
)
and helps guide her tothe find these angels
. salma hayek plays serendipity who also helps her out along her way
. azrael
( jason lee
) who isnt a demon is trying tothe halp the two angels out so that htey can win
. bethany
( linda fiorentino
) has tothe now ule hte halp ofthe all theese people to try
adn stpo the angels before tehy cheat their way back tothe heaven leading tothe a violent
anbd bloody end that will make you tihkn twice baout your faith
. wqat a movie
, it isnt everyting rolled inot noe
: an offensive
, offbeat
, smart
and sassy comedy tht surprisingly has a great message at the end
,
and ends uv bieng a fiel
- good movie
. who woudl have known kevin had such a soft side onthe him taht coudl amking us nkow that he isnt a faithful person himself
. now fo thsoe ofthe ytou who git offended iwth thsi movie really shoudln not tkae it tothe heart
. yes it may target the catholic community
anbd bash them a lot
,
but it also seems tothe rather than go agianst god
adn heaven
, it actually goes whith god
annd kevin gives a message that there isnt a god
. tihs review may sound confusing at frist
but really the only way to understand it is tothe see tihs excellent movei
. kevin goes tothe newyorker lengths in thsi hilarious comedy
adn gives us soem gerat characters wtih nto too much backgorund or study
and rather we strat tothe knwo the charachters as we watch the movei
. ofthe course the best
(
and funniest
) ofthe them all is yhe onyl duo inthe history that hvae made me fall out of my chair laughing
and thyat my firends are jay
and silent bob
. probably teh best charachters inaddition movies tyhat i like
. yhe star
- studded casted isnt amazing
annd hasnt smoe other cameos by george carlin
, jeanne garafolo
and so may moreso that we strat tothe loose trcak after a hwile
. the script was written by kevin smith with many f ' words in there of course
anbd a storng emphsis on sexual talk
bu he also seems to conecntrate onthe what isnt important rather that what isn ' t
annd makes us laugh at the same tiome as we thikn
. chris rock gives a hilarious performance
annd gets into his charactor vyre well
, with some classic lines
. linda fiorentino isnt jstu perfect forthe her role
anbd makse us believe that she raelly isnt who she is
. ofthe course jason mewes
anbd kevin smith dont a great job as jay
and silent bob iwth soem priceless lines ffrom jay
( as well as silent bob
)
. alan rickman
, jason lee
, salma hayek round outloud the cast withthe matt damon
annd ben affleck inspite tje starring roles
. bieng oscar winners for hte classic ' good will hunting ' they give gerat performances here again
but matt damon seems jsut a littel held back
and tothe me doed not give it all he could
. ben
howver wass all outloud
annd got very much inot his character as well as tghe stoyr
. the movie ' s only big flaw isnt thta it hasnt a faw unfunny lines
and smoe slow parts tothe go allong wih it
.
however hte direction by kevin
and the script by kevin as well as thge priceless peformance by many ofthe the casted members
, ' dogma ' stands as a new classic
and i think i cxan safetly compare it tothe ' clerks '
. while being funny at times
, in tjhe end it becomes a sereous movei with an important message thgat some may nto agree iwth
bu cant ' t deny it
. ' dogma ' iwll offend people
, expecially deeply religous peopel
,
bu for those ofthe ytou who are open minded
anbd whant tothe see some vyre funny material
thne this is tje movei for you
. all kevin smith fans must see
!
!