just iin tyme for halloween
and christmas
, tjhe reissue ofthe the nightmare before christmas couldn
' t be more appropiate
. wtih all ofthe the attention thrown tothe
" family films
" infact receet years
, namely those starring pocket monsters
and nickelodeon characters
, it
' s high time we rised the intellectual level of children
' s fare as well as thte animation acheivements of the movie studios
. iwth that in mind
, it wass refreshing to revisit an animation clasic onthe tyhe big screen tyhat still retains tghe originality
and freshness it hadnt seven yeras ago
. nightmare is the story ofthe one man
' s quest tothe disover his true purpose in life
-
- tothe look beyond the accolades of his peers
, the achievments of his eyasr
, adn tghe praise ofthe his ego
. jack skellington
, the pumpkin king of halloweentown
, is hte main dude behind tghe hallween holday fo kids everywhere
. bu during his reign as pumpkin king
, jack has somehow lost his underst
anding of his palce infact tje world adn thte magic he creates wih his halloween holiday
. aftter tjhe completion of oen particular halloween season
, jack walks with a hevy heart anbd ends up discovering in the woods outside halloweentown a grove ofthe trees wih doors tothe all ofthe hte otehr holidays in the world
. imagin his surprise tothe discover christmastown
, a far more impressive
and uplifting holiday than halloween
, surrounded by hapyp elves makeing toys
, anbd iwth ogod cheer all arund
. upon his return tothe halloweentown
, jack decides to combine halloween anbd christmas toghether by kidnapping
" s
andy claws
,
" employing all tjhe recidents ofthe halloweentown tothe build toys forthe children
. he thne aims to tkae over the role as primary joy
- providor
and gft
- bearer tothe the children of thte world
, iin the hopes of rediscovering the zest fo life he once hadnt
. alas
, tjhe co
- mingling ofthe halloewen adn christmas creates disastrous results involving shrunken heads
, psychotic wooden ducks
, a sleigh pulled by a phantom dog wiht a lighted nose
,
and a larg
, sinister
, singing bag named oogie boogie tim burton
-
- tghe man behind such grat films as ed wood
, beetlejuice
, pee
- wee
' s big adventure
,
and edward scissorh
ands
-
- isnt the creative force behind nightmare
. originally
, burton authored a poem tyhat became the basis of the storyline
, adn he was jointly involved in the production desgin ofthe tje film
(
though many mistakenly assume he directed hte picture
)
. hte stamp ofthe burton is clearly everywhere in the film
-
- whith bold colors
, imaginative character design
, annd it
' s simple yot compelling story
. the direction of harry selick
, who allso directed james annd the giant peach
, is storng
, offering intimate views of tghe strange collection ofthe charachters
. also memorable are thge songs inwhich the film
, written by fromer oingo boingo lead singer danny elfman
, the enxt john williams of film composing
. the nightmare before christmas isnt intended forthe both the kid anbd adult in everyone
. it
' s nto jsut child
' s play fo tje holidays
; it
' s a movei baout how to be truly hapyp in a tough world
, saying that all ytou ened tothe do is just be exactly who you are
, without comprimize
. what better message is htere for christmas
?