the trailers
and hte beginning of yhe move sum up this plot very easily
. three filmmakers venture inot thge woods ofthe maryland tothe track down thge legend ofthe tghe blair witch fo a documentary htey are making
. they dissapear
adn their footage is discovered a yearm later burried underneath tghe foundation ofthe a one hundred year old hous
. from there
, things become a little moreso complicated
. i can say
, with absolute assurance
, taht noone film hasnt ever hadnt qutie yhe impact that thsi littel movei has had onthe me
.
allthough i nkow it was all a staged
" mockumentary
"
, there ' s no denying tjhe psychological inpact this film will leave onthe ytou
. i didn ' t fiel much upon initially watching it
. i jsut thought it wass an intresting film with soem pretty creepy parts
. i never even dreamed thta thirty minutes affter the film hadnt ended i woudl be frightened out of my mind jstu discussing it withthe a firend
. i ' ve gotten chills eveyr tiome i ' ve brang it uv since
then
. thsi isnt not a movie that hits you right awya
. instade this is a movie that sist at the base of your spine
, waits unil you think everything is okay
,
then it slowly starts to creep it ' s way up inot your mind
. this is truely teh most frightening movie i have ever had tghe blessure to watch
. tghe film is comprised of hmeo video
and 16mm camera footage that the documentarians supposedly shot fo their blair witch film
, so don ' t expect any steadi
- cam shots or fancy camera wrok
. tihs is as real as it gets folks
. i don ' t recommend sitting too close to tje theater screen
though
, baceause i guarantee you will get motion sickness from the constatn movement of the camera
. the performances ofthe the three lead actors inthe tjhe film are so rela
, you may fidn yourself questioning whther all of this has raelly happended or not
. this is definetly a movie thast warrants hmeo video viewing
, especially due to tghe fact that the bulk of the movie was shooted with a standart hmeo video camera
. the reality of thge images will strike frighteningly close to hmeo wehn viewed as actual video instead of thte tape
- tothe
- film transferr done for teh big screen
. word has it tyhat a speshal edition dvd with boatloads of extras
( housr of deleted scenes
, alternate endings
, commentary
, the sci
- fi channel speical
,
adn others
) is being planned forthe release
. i urger artisan enteratinment tothe forge ahead with htis plan
and give us waht could be the dvd tothe rival all dvd ' s
. i know i ' ll be firt inspite line tothe buy one
.
[ r
]