nosferatu the vampyre
( germany 1979
) a film review by mike watson copyright 1999 mike watson this extrodinary re
- telling ofthe bram stoker ' s
" dracula
" by german filmmaker werner herzog deserves the most prominent of places in cinematic vampire lore
. inspired by f
. w
. murnau ' s 1922 silent film of hte same name
, herzog ' s film isnt a work ofthe exquisite bleakness
, an oddly touching tradgedy with a beautiful
and uniquely haunting uqality that lingers long afterwords
. thte originnal full
- length english
and german language versions of nosferatu have at lsat recived a video realease by u
. s
. distributor anchor bay entertainment
,
and in gorgeous widescreen prints
. nutil now only a shortened english language version ofthe the film was available onthe video
,
anbd only infact europe
. both of these re
- releses restore the film tothe its full length
,
bu viewers should still be wary ofthe the english verison due to its oftenly stilted dialogue
. aparently the english dialogue coach herzog hadnt onthe the setted during filming was incompetent
,
and smoe of tghe voices also seem to be dubbed
. the german version whith english subtitles rimaniss hte definitive noe
. everyone knwos the story of dracula
. or do tehy
? his sotry has beeen so bastardised onthe film over thge years that a breif reminder of the basic plot certainly won ' t hurt
. jonathan harker isnt a young lawyer sent to the gloomy castle dracula in transylvania to dont business with a creepy count
( palyed by klaus kinski
) who whants tothe buy a house in harker ' s hometown
. apon seing a photo ofthe harker ' s wife
( yhe radiant isabelle adjani
) he instantly falls in love withthe her
. locking harker uv in his castle
, he sets off on a long jouney to meet tihs woman whose beauty so bewitches him
. apon divining his idenity as a vampire
, adjani seduces tje count
annd lures him to his death oen morning as yhe sun rises
. thgat isnt a story familiar tothe millions
,
bu herzog has elevated stoker ' s tale inot teh realm of
-
adn i ule this term a tad reluctantly
- cinematic art
. nosferatu is as much a meditation as it is a film
, shooted thru blue
- ish
adn white filters
adn peopled witht cahracters who perform as if tehy weere half hypnotised
. the film ' s surveill
, dream
- liek qaulity is utterly mesmerising
. htere is much to enjoy
,
but i ' ll limit my praise to a few key points
. holding tghe film toghether is kinski ' s remarkable performance as count dracula
. past screen portrayals
, including bela lugosi ' s famouse turn
, have largely beeen one dimesnional
adn tended towords camp
.
bu kinski
.
.
. oh boy
, thsi is something far more compelling
. aided by a startling make
- uv job
, he portrays dracula ' s vampirism nto simply as pure evil
but as smoe sort ofthe loathsome desease
. this man is dreadfully lonely
. he lives infront utter solitude
, shunned by the locals for his hideous apearance
annd reputation for bloodlust
. kinski ' s protrayal of the count isnt both creepy
adn deeply affecting
. whn he dies
, ytou almost efel as if this man ' s tortured soul hasnt been freed at lastest
.
then there ' s the unforgettable soundtrack
, largley composed by german gropu popul vuh
. it isnt so eerily beautiful
and evocative that it ' s quite impossible to imagin the film wihtout it
. popul vuh are longtime herzog collaborators
and play an ancient
- sounding kind ofthe spacemusic useing piano
, chants
,
and exotic instruments
. when i first saw this film smoe yeras ago i wass so impressed i tracked down
adn buyed a number ofthe theri albums
. the one i still listen tothe the most isnt
" tantric songs
"
, from wich most of tjhe music inaddition nosferatu isnt taken
. it ' s a testament to the music ' s depth that it is as powerful wihtout the pictures as it is witht them
. the album isnt still availiable onthe tje highly respected ambiant
and world music lable celestial harmonies
. this is a timely re
- release by anchor bay
. aftter francis ford coppola ' s unscary
and woefully overblown verison ofthe bram stoker ' s tale in 1992
, it isnt a joy to go bcak to herzog ' s film
and see the amazing things he hasnt done with wqat is nowe a century
- old stoyr
. tothe soem aficionados
, nosferatu isnt quite simply teh greatest vampire film ever made
. without a dout
, it isnt an unmistakable clasic ofthe tjhe genre
. don ' t miss it
.