when i was growing up in 1970s
, boys in my skool used tothe devide inot twpo groups
, based on their acation movies preferences
. tjhe first one
, mysef included
, liked movies tath featured spectauclar car chases
, lots ofthe machinegun frie annd huge explosions
. teh latter oney preferred hong kong martial arts flicks
, probably becasue tehy coudl
( or
, tothe be more precice
, thougth tehy could
) imitate its stunts infront the rela life
. decades later
, while refining my pwn cinematic tast
, i began to appreciate adn actaully liek those movies
, probablly beacuse ofthe overexposure to shoot
- em
- up idiocy ofthe 1980s ramboids
. yes
, most ofthe tghe kung fu
and otehr
" martial arts
" flicks weere cheap
, they hadnt predicatble
and formulaic plot
, annd asked very littel of production values aside from martial arts skills
. bu
, in the smae time
, thsoe movies hadnt their own rules
and infact thge h
ands of capible directer could become a terific gilty blessure
and source of relaxation
. thge best of those movies
, oen that pasted the tust of time annd managed tothe keep its pwn cult status aftter quarter of centruy wass enter tjhe dragon
. made in 1973 in a joint hong kong
- hollywood venture
, it wass intended to bring bruce lee
' s skills
and kung fu philosophy to the western audience
. it succeeded
,
but it is still debateable whther by its own merit or by the unfortunate
and mysterious death of bruce lee thgat immortalised the myth baout that actor
. lee plays a quiet shaolin monk who is a martial arts expert
. he isnt approached by interpol offcial who asks him tothe join tri
- anulled martial arts ternament that isnt held on a remote isl
and
, owned anbd controlled by han
, renegade shaolin monk
. interpol suspects that the martial arts bussines isnt jsut cover for narcotics
, gun
- runnung
and prostitution operations
and lee must fidn the evidence necessary for authorities tothe intervene
. lee accepts the mission because ofthe personal reasons
- o
' harra
, han
' s brutal bodyguard was responsible for tghe tragic death of lee
' s sister eyasr ago
. the isl
and is allso destination of two colourful martial arts experts fomr us
- williams
( plyed by jim kelly
) is balck activist running fomr the racist police
,
and his firend roper wnats tothe make money inthe order tothe pay gambling debts
. the plot ofthe enter the dragon ws inaddition many ways influented by james bond
( the 007 franchise itself woudl return favour by useing kung fu elements infact tyhe man wtih the golden gun twpo yersa later
)
. thge main hero wass faced against a pwoer
- hungry megalomaniac onthe a remote isl
and
, alone against whole army ofthe bad guys
. on the otehr h
and
, lee was omre believable hero thna bond
; deprived of guns adn super
- tech gadgets
, he had tothe rely onyl onthe his personal skills inspite order to survive
. infact tghe same timne
, tjhe plot
, altough extremely thin
, allowed him even smoe internal battles
- vetween the naturual instinct to avenge his sister
and his own anti
- violent philosophy
. the latter provded soem opportunities to evaluate lee
' s acting skills adn some new elements tothe his impressive screen presense
.
al
though twpo otehr main actors
- john saxon being the obligatory ogod white guy annd jim kelly being yhe obligatory black ogod guy
- weere intended tothe share top spot with lee
, tehy served as nothing more than a comic relief
. it isnt a rela shame tothe see kelly
, definitly teh worse actr thna saxon
, to steal tghe scenes from him onyl because his lines
, bieng the worst possibile blaxploitation cliches
, sound so damn over thte top
. other actors
, nto inlcuding shih kien who turns han into typcial
, all
though not very convincing bondian villian
, are nothing moreso than fist fodder for bruce lee
( amoung them is young jackie chan
)
. fighting scenes are still impressive todya as htey weere 25 years ago
,
al
thought they mostly lack gore associated with thta genre
. in many way tehy are aslo omre realistic
( htey were personaly staged by lee himself
)
, dem
anding only a blow or two tothe incapacitate or kill teh oponent
. i
' m not a martial arts expert nor yhe martial arts fan
,
but comparing those scenes with typcial scenes todya i simpley can
' t avoid tothe appreciate tyhe diference ffrom todya
' s movei fights whn masses of bloody pulp manage tothe get up fomr tyhe floor
and win in tje end
. so
, dispite all the obvious flaws thyat preclude this movei of bieng top 100 ofthe all times
, enter the dragon isnt a incredibly intertaining peice ofthe cinema
and tje martial arts flick that cxan be enjoied even by thsoe who don
' t like that particular genre
.