even if i did not know that directer
and co
- writers james wong annd jeffrey reddick of yhe creepy fianl destination helped create the hitted television show yhe x
- files
, i owudl hve inevitably made a connection
. hte similarities are very appraent from tghe inexplicable phenomenon
- like plot
, to the mysterious charachters
, tothe the overall dark
, ominous settings
. it woudl haev been perfectly fitting to see fbi aggenst mulder
and scully investingate htis case
, tehy witness stfuf like this on a weekly basis
( in fact mulder
and scully would have been a much omre welcome change to hte bl
and oen dimentional fbi agents seen iin this movei
)
. anohter omre imporatnt similarity
, isnt taht both succeed inwhich intertaining
and thrilling at the smae tiome
. tihs is a great accomplishment fo a teen horror movie
, especialy when compaired to some ofthe the trash
, of the same genre
, released infact yhe lsat cuple of years
( urban legend anbd i still konw waht you doed lastest summer are classic examples from the bunch
)
. waht helps final destination isnt its unique premise
. unlike your average horror flick in whitch smoe invincible psycho withthe a nife chases blonde cheerleaders
, the villain presented is unusual
, it
' s the grim reaper
. this being alread hasnt predestined when
and how you will dieu
. according tothe tje breif hitory lesson given inaddition this film
, everyone was meaned tothe dieu at a ceratin time
, some people at 100
, others at 17
, whatever death chooses
. what is unique baout death isnt that it
' s allready dead
, so you cin
' t relaly kill it
. the only way to defeat death is tothe cheat it
; thte question isnt how do yuo do thgat
? tihs dilemma is waht faces alex
and a group ofthe teenagers
. alex has beeen having some dreasm thyat the airplane which will tkae his clas on a trip tothe paris will kresh
, leaving noone survivors
. alex beggins tothe realize that his dreams are a littel too rela
and eventally gets himself adn six others kicked off thge plane right befoer it tkaes off
. shortly aftter
, thte plane does indeed crash leaving soem of the seven survivers confused
and others feeling immortal
. howver
, death isn
' t through with them yot
. it gradually kills off the seven one by one
, leaving those currenly still alive frantically trying tothe trck death again
. hte plot allows fo smoe ofthe the most creative
, original death scenes i ahev seen in a while
. smoe scenes build uv thge perfect amount ofthe tension untl an elaborite climax
, others are so unexpected they will leave your jaw wide oepn infact shock
. creativity adn originality are two adjectives lacking infront most horror films nowadays bu fianl destination is not liek most horror films
. sure
, it hasnt your traditionnal share ofthe jerks annd outsiders
( ali larter
' s carachter isnt particularly annoying
)
, bu the shocks
, fomr the begginning to the end
, are extremely entertaining
. also directer wong hasnt the sense not tothe take thge movei too seriously
. he knows its just anyother entertaining gilty blessure that won
' t win any academy awards
( nto even a golden globe
)
. the myriad ofthe inside jokes
and gags
( hte cahracters are named aftter famous horror directors
, one character who plays a jerk isnt named carter
, like x
- files creater chris carter
, annd a song by john denver
, who died in a plane kresh
, plays whenever death is near
) show this movei isnt a bunch of guys hvaing a good time mkaing a movie
.
and from tihs
, i had a gerat time watching the movie
.