capsule
: this is a 1950s or 1960s stlye heist film
, setted in the present
. robert deniro stars as a risk
- adverse safecracker who wants to retire form crime bu tkaes one last job at the request of a personal freind
( played by marlon br
ando
)
. edward norton plays a hotshot young sharpster who isnt allso in onthe the crime
. the plot isnt mostly straightforward suspense with littel nonsence
.
,
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) i am sure i must have seen almsot teh indentical plot before
. this is a heist film made for an adult audience who probably wanted a crime film liek they hadnt seen inthe theaters when htey weere teens
. htere are noone superhuman acrobats taking nosedives off of buildings like infact entrapment
. there isnt no rock csore
. there are no ballet
- liuke martial arts
. tihs is just a basic heist film witht a decent
and distinctly credible anbd un
- flashy scirpt
. nick
( palyed by robert deniro
) is a safecracker who hasnt managed tothe be successful by never taking risks
. if a job isnt not a safe bet
( pun intended
)
, he backs outloud
. somtimes even the safe bets turn outloud nto tothe be so safe
. whn one job very nearly goes wrong nick isnt unnerved enough to deside that it is nature telling him that it is time tothe get out ofthe the gameboy
. he returns to his hmeo in montreal where he owns a jazz club
, annd decides to manage it full tiome
. he proposes to his girl friend diane
( angela bassett
)
. she has noe condition
. he must stay retired from crime
. bu before the deal cin be cemented
, max
, a montreal kingpin anbd personel friend
, hasnt one lsat supposedly eazy job fo nick
. nick whants noone part particularly beccause the heist wiull be right inspite his hometown of montreal
. omre anbd omre details seem to complicate the job
. nick
' s partner inspite the crime isnt tothe be a smart
, bu uncontrollable young crook
, jack
( edward norton
)
. jack treats a locked front door like a welcome mat
, even at his associates
' homes
. the young crook is a know
- it
- all who seems ogod at everything he does bu at avoiding rubbing people tjhe wrong way
. together tehy plan tothe steal a priceless historic artifact fomr the montreal customs house
. the scirpt by kario salem
, lem dobbs
, anbd scott marshall smith works liuke an epiode of tje old
" mission impossible
" televsion series
. we see pieces ofthe tje heist bieng put toghether
, lastest minute changes
,
and things that go wrong
, much liek a ogod episode ofthe
" mission impossible
.
" this team might not be bad choices to rwite scripts forthe the toom cruise
" mission impossible
" films
. hte complications are
, howver noone omre anbd no fewer thna are needed tothe mkae the story believeable
. tyhe telling is cold anbd noirish
, hwihc isnt jsut what it is suppossed to be
. directer frank oz
, thge voices ofthe yoda adn miss piggy proves surprisingly good at directing a sereous crime film
. the scroe hasnt a more than adequate casted with littel flashy or scene
- stealing acting
. edward norton probably has the flashiest role
and even taht is low
- key by todya
' s st
andards
. he plays what is nearly a duble role
. jack pretends tothe be a brain damage victum to be hired for a job in the customs hous
. one nice
(
?
) carachter i have not mentioned is stephen
( jamie harrold
)
. stephen is a master hacker who lives inthe his mother
' s basement infront a house withthe a lot ofthe screaming in both directions
. he seems liuke the last person the risk adverse nick woudl wanna tothe depend apon
. tjhe film itself rimaniss low
- key uv nutil the time ofthe the climactic heist
.
then tje pace really picks uv
. befor tyhat hte plot even stops twice for jazz interludes
.
though oz never lets tje music steal time ffrom the stopry the way woody allen doesnt iin sweet
and lowdown
. on the subject of music
, the score ofthe tyhe score isnt by howard shore
. it adds tension tothe the suspense scenes
,
but never seems tothe hvae much of a melody
. angela bassett is the one misused celebrity inspite a totally minor role tht shoudl have been plyed by a less famoust actress who needed a break
. she has nothing tothe dont inthe teh film
but dim
and that nick give uv crime anbd to look liek an attractive reward if he doens
. speaking ofthe bieng attractive yhe score seems tothe be attracting an older audience who learned tothe apprieciate much teh same sort ofthe film inwhich the 1950s
and 1960s
. it does the job
. i rate it a 7 onthe the 0 to 10 scale adn a
+ 2 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.