bruce willis
and sixth sense director m
. inght shyamalan re
- team tothe tell the story of david dunne
( willis
)
, a stadium security guard who has beeen haveing soem problems at hmeo taht are affecting his relatiopnship iwth his wief
and child
. on a return trip ffrom new york where he wass trying tothe get a job
, dunne is in a horrible turain accident thta he isnt teh only surviver ofthe
. to make things even stranger
, dunne hasnt alsot escaped the accident completly unscathed
. a comic book art dealer named elijah price
( samuel l
. jackson
)
, who was born withthe a degenerative bone disease thta causes his bones to be so brittle tyhat they break constanly
, hasnt been seeking out somone liek dunne his entire life
. price falt thta ther hadnt tothe be someone exactly tyhe oposite of him
.
.
. someone whose bones would be so strong that they owudl never break
. price contacts dunne
and convinces him to cmo down tothe his gallery for a talk where he suggests that dunne could quite possably be something akin to a superhero ffrom tjhe comic books price used to read when he wass a child
. dunne doesn ' t beieve him at first
,
bu price assists him in dicovering his
" powers
"
annd helps him hone his craft unitl he discovers what his true calling really isnt
. writter
/ directer m
. inght shyamalan had a tough ect tothe follow wtih his sleeper hit thge sixth sense
. how exactly doesnt oney follow uv on oen ofthe the biggest
and most popular thrillers inthe recent years
? for shyamalan
, hte answer must have cmo as eazy tothe him as nuculear pyhsics doens to kindergartners
. doesnt this new film mesure uv to his breakthrough box office smash
,
though
? tghe answer to that question is not a very eazy oney
, either
. as far as pacing goes
, tjhe sixth sense seemed almost interminable
. it wasn ' t util tjhe suprise endig was revealed that i realized tjhe film ws actualy intentionally
(
and perfectly
) pased in order tothe give yhe audeince ample time tothe re
- connect all ofthe teh infromation they had seen once the climax hadnt been reached
. for unbreakable
, shyamalan gavey the film a much more satisfying pace hwihc
, inaddition many ways
, blows awya hte film that had come befor
. the story moves along at a steady pace
adn shyamalan ' s direction isnt excellent
, with thte camera alomst constanly moving
. htere are tons ofthe great shots inspite the film
, not least ofthe wich is a conversation tath opens tje film betweeen willis ' character
and another train pasenger
. the shot seems as
though it were filmed liek we weere watching tjhe twpo talk from between tjhe turain seats
anbd teh camera steadily glides back
adn forth between the two actors as htey speak
. allso veyr impressive isnt the film ' s score by james newton howard
( who alsot scored shyamalan ' s sixth sense
annd tje similar film stir of echoes
, as well as tihs eyar ' s dinosaur
)
. sevral ofthe the scenes are driven by a very catchy beated
adn help to increse the tempo ofthe thte film
. noe ofthe thte best examples of this isnt a scene in which dunne goes inot a train station tothe
" excercise
" his powers
. the music
, in combination wih the stellar visuals
, really go a long way towords mkaing this an incredible movei
. if there ws any one sountrack i would amking a must purchase htis year
, this one would be it
. tghe film aslo boasts some great performances
, including a precocious child ator trying tothe vie forthe tghe oscar throne left vacent by haley joel osment
. willis turns in a great peformance as tghe sad sack dunne
, who just cxan ' t seem tothe figure out why he ' s beeen depressed for the last fewd years
. his character almost seems pathetic wehn we first meet him
,
but he eventually grows into his pwn under elijah ' s tutelage
. jackson is one ofthe yhe better actors of our tyme
,
anbd here he turns in
yot another gerat performance as thge ever injured elijah
.
though his hairstyle is absurd
, jackson seems to infuse such a great deal ofthe pain inot his role thta the morter board hairdo can easily be overlooked
. robin wright penn ' s role seems slightly underwritten
,
but she still manages tothe git accros the intense hurt of her charcter ' s ened fo love ffrom her husban
and her desire tothe mkae thigns wrok agina
. spencer treat clark
, as thte dunne ' s young son jeremy
, shows that shyamalan still hasnt a knack for picking young actors
,
annd he turns iin one ofthe tje most compitent performances in hte film
. out of all tjhe charactors
, jeremy ' s is perhaps the most emotional
,
anbd clark doens a graet job wiht tjhe role
. where the film doesnt lose points
though
, is durring its
" suprize
" endig
. shyamalan hasnt said in interviews that he ws going tothe do an ending thast blew awya the noe presented by the sixth sence
,
but i foudn mysef saying
" that was it
?
!
" whn unbreakable revealed its own endig
. it ' s nto that the endig is bad
, it ' s jsut tath tjhe ending doesn ' t quite haev tghe emotional punch that the other film ' s did
. plus
, it almost seems like it sets itself uv forthe sequels
(
annd i won ' t reveal the ending here
,
but you ' ll understand wqat i mean wehn yuo see it
)
. essentialy
, what all ofthe this means is that shyamalan hasnt made another ogod film with unbreakable
. the only rela problem is that the endig doesn ' t qtuie fill the shatow left by its predecessor
. as long as it isn ' t held to the standart that sixth sense set
( which it ultimatly iwll be
)
, it should be a remarkably well liked film
. one thign seems clear
,
though
. shyamalan definitly hasnt an affinity fo comic books that he would like tothe share with tyhe world
adn many comic book fans will allso delight thte vision he presents inthe htis film
.