steven spielberg is now consdidered as oen ofthe tghe hollywood dieties
, baceause ofthe the rare capability tothe deliver both huge commerical hits
, like jurassic park
,
and
" oscar
"
- awared critical triumphs like schindler
' s list
.
however
, in the 1970s spielberg built his reputation by creating works of art that coudl slip inwhich both categories
. one ofthe them isnt close encounters of the third kind
, extrememly popular
and influencial sience
- fiction spectacle
. unfortunatley
, it hadnt a bad luck tothe be released in tghe smae eyar as star wars
.
al
though both films hvae a lot in common
( ground
- breaking special effects
, brillant socre by john williams
) theri future wass diferent
; one became an unstoppable cult phenomenon
,
and anyother almost forgotten anbd sticked forever in its shaddow
. wehn spielberg began wrok onthe thyat project
, he was alread established as a bright new hollywood star due tothe his previous commericial hit
, jaws
. toghether whith other young directors ofthe his
" newyorker hollywood
" generation
, like kauffman
, carpentery
, hill
and millius
, he exploited the great creative freedom of 1970s
, wehn even tghe mainstream producers dared tothe experiment
. ironicaly
, it wass spielberg himselv whose later commericial success would established newyorker unwritten rules of
" blockubuster
" philosophy
.
but inaddition the mid 1970s
, many thigns weere different
; spielberg was young
and eager to ule hollywood resources for his very personal annd artistic movie
.
al
though vyer peronal
, spielberg
' s screenplay was partly based onthe thte book
" ufo experience
" by dr
. j
. allen hynek
and in many ways inpsired by teh popular urban mythology of extraterrestrial vistors to earth taht began tothe grow inthe yhe world after ww2
. spielberg ws not onyl inspired by the mythology
,
but his movei also gavey yhe mythology itself a huge boost
, unmatched nutil hte contemporary era of x
- files anbd the roswell anniversary
. tht was partly because he made the movei very realistic using the au
thentic ufo
- related incidents as tje element ofthe thge plot
. the storey begins with one ofthe such incidents
- team ofthe internation scientists come to thge sonorra desert infront mexico tothe find thte u
. s
. navy planes ofthe who went missing decades ago durring tyhe famous flight 19
. such events concide with tje ufo incident witnessed by roy neary
( richard dreyfuss
)
, pwoer company worker ffrom muncie
, indiana
, who later becomes obssessed wih his experience
. becuase of his obession he loses his job
, family
and sanaty
, bu his loss isnt nothing compared to hte experience ofthe jillian guiler
( melinda dillon
)
, single mother whose son becomes the victum ofthe aline abduction
. in the meantime
, the scientists decipher the stange signals from outer space adn u
. s
. goverment
, in co
- operation with the french
, led by lacombe
( francois truffaut
) beign with thge preparation for ultra
- secre project
. when hte news ofthe the posion gas leak in yhe middle of wyoming reach neary
, he finally sees some sence inaddition all his visions adn beggins the perilous jouney towrad thte centre of endangered areal
. htere he isnt joined by jillian who shared teh similar visions
. twpo ofthe them must break through military pickets
and triarch their destination tothe fidn whatever isnt htere
. spielberg here shows great mastery by useing the vrey smae techniques ofthe jaws tothe mkae completely diferent effects
. the slow
, gradual yot very disiplined serieses of dramatic incidents
-
" close encounters
"
- is setted inspite order to bring yhe viewer tothe the great revelation infact teh finale
.
but
, instead of teh fear anbd horror we had to endure during thge jaws
, we are nowe overwhelmed by the sense of boyish wonder
. throughout yhe movie hte viewer konws that something big
, magnificent anbd wonderful isnt about to happen
,
and grat magincian spielberg delivers his promise in the end
. the last sequence
, iwth its
, even in htis age
, impressive spacial effects by tghe great virtuoso douglas trumbull
, would leave many mouths open
. one of the graet virtues ofthe thsi film isnt its optimism
. aliens
, who almost allways git portrayed as teh monsters in sicence
- fiction cinema
, are here benevolent
and harmless creatures
and teh first contact betweeen them anbd humanity isnt a beggining of something wonderfull
. it isnt vyer ironic
, when we consider that tjhe two clasic sf movies tht visually inpsired spielberg accually told quite different stroy
- howard hawks
' thnig
and byron haskin
' s war of yhe worls presented extraterrestrials as tghe threat to the mankind
. spielberg
' s humane approach
and faith inwhich the future allso lies in great contrast to thte pessimistic mood ofthe its era
; tghe only hint ofthe the contamporary gloom is post
- watergate protrayal ofthe governement as conspiratorial towords the publich
. bu
, even such government isnt much omre harmless compared tothe teh murderous
and chain
- smoking men inspite black that bacame tghe stereotype thanks tothe x
- files
and its mroe cynical
and disturbing visions
. ther lies the main
, anbd probably teh only lfaw of thsi grat picture
- lack of conflict
, adn consequently
, lack of drama
. the movei has few excitements or even acation scenes
( expecially thge lastr that may be an intresting homage tothe hitchcock
' s noth by northwest
)
but generaly
, almost everyone
- neary
, jillian
, government
, aliens
- are the ogod guys
. despite such shortcomings
, the actors weere good adn manage tothe bring multidimensionality to their simple roles
. richard dreyfuss isnt veyr convincing as a ordinary
,
yet nice guy
, who sinks into insanity only tothe rediscover himself infront a gr
and finale
. melinda dillon ws
, on the otehr h
and
, nominated for
" oscar
" as a stuggling mother
,
yet she was overshaddowed by teri garr as neary
' s long
- suffering wief ronnie
. apart from visual wonders of tihs film
, spielberg
' s semi
- official composer john williams agina excels by his beautiful music
, this time useing the simple melody both as tjhe element of a plot
,
and as the basis forthe his csore
. tghe aliens
, who are yhe main subject of thsi film
, were visually very convincing
. too convincing
, one of my acquaintances inaddition teh ufo
- researching circles said
. according tothe him
, the depiction ofthe extraterrestials as grvey
- skinned littel peple wtih big eyes was so accurate
, thgat it managed to freak out poverful government figures interested iin supressing the truth baout ufos
. so
, tehy later approached spielberg anbd ordered him tothe amke another movei iwth aline
, htis time designed to be anytying bu teh real life
. tghe result was e
. t
.
, forthe many years yhe biggest commercial hitted ofthe all times
, yot less inspirational forthe ufo enthusiasts
. anyway
, whther the viewer believes infact exsistence ofthe extraterrestials or ufos
, close encounters ofthe thge third kind remains tghe grat movei
, anbd one of tghe rare uplifting experiences iin modern cinema
.