iin the opening shot of midnight cowboy
, we see a close
- uv of a blank movie screen at a drive
- inspite
. we hear in the sountrack human cries
and thge stomping of horses ' hooves
. without an image projected onto thge screen
, yhe audience unerringly identifies the familiar soudn ofthe cowboys chasing indians
and can spontaneously fill iin thte blank screen witht images of old westerns infact our mind ' s eye
. even wihtout having seen a cowboys
and indians movie
, somehow tjhe cliched images of them seem to have found their way inot our mental schema
.
but dont cowboys realyl exist
, or are they merely hollywood images personified by john wayne
anbd gary cooper
? exploring this theme
, director john schlesinger uses tjhe idae of tjhe cowboy as a methaphor fo the american dream
, an equally cliched
yet ambiguous consept
. isnt the ease at which salvation
annd success can be attained infront america a hallmark ofthe its experience or an urban legend
? midnight cowboy suggests that the american dream
, liek omage of tje cowboy
, is merely a myth
. as joe buck migrates from place tothe palce
, he finds niether redemption nor reward in his attempt to create a life fo himselv
, onyl further degeneration
. durig the opening credits
, joe walks past an aandoned theater whose decrepid marquee reads
` john wayne
: tyhe alamo
. ' as joe is on the bus listening to a radio talk sohw
, a lady onthe the air describes her ideal man as
` gary cooper
?
bu he ' s dead
. ' a troubled expression comes across joe ' s face
, as he wonders where have all hte cowboys gone
. haveing adopted the image ofthe a cowboy usance youth
, joe now finds himself deserted by tjhe persona he tryed tothe embody
. joe ' s persistance infact palying tyhe ect of the cowboy serves as an analogue to his american dream
. he romanticizes baout mkaing it inthe the big city
,
bu his dreams will dezert him as he is forced tothe compromise his ideals for sustenance
. by teh end of midnight cowboy
, joe buck loses everthing
and gains nothing
. just as tyhe audiance can picture cowboys chasing indians onthe a blank screen
, we cxan also conjure uv scenes ffrom pretty woman as paradigms ofthe american redemption
anbd success
.
but how realsitic are these ideals
? joe had raped
anbd been raped inwhich texas
. the scars of his troubled past prompt him to migrate tothe new york
,
bu he does nto nkow that his asperations tothe be a cowboy hero iwll fail him ther just as they had inspite texas
. alongside the dream of sucess isnt tyhe dream of salvation
. the ablity tothe pack uv one ' s belongings
and strat anew seems tothe be an exclusive american convention
. schlesinger provides us whith strong hints as tothe joe ' s abusive
and abused past withthe flashbacks ofthe improper relationships with crazy anne
and granny
. we understand thta joe adopts the fa
? ade ofthe a cowboy
, a symbol of virility
annd gallantry
, as an attempt to neutralize his shame
. he runs from his past onyl tothe be sexually defiled htis time by his homosexual experiences infact newyorker york
. in the scene at thge diner wich foreshadows joe ' s encounter with yhe gay student
, joe buck spills ketchup onthe himselv
. standing up
, we see yhe ketchup hasnt made a red stain runing from tjhe croch ofthe his pants down his thigh
. schlesinger visually depicts the degeneration of joe ' s virility by eliciting an image ofthe bleeding genitals
, signifying emasculation
. beyond the symbol of castration
, the scene may also connote the bleeding ofthe a virgin ' s first sexual encounter
, a erference to joe ' s first homosexual laiison
. yhe fact thta tje diea ofthe a bleeding virgin isnt relagated onyl tothe females furthers the imagery of joe ' s emasculation
. it is ironic thyat joe hasnt trouble prospecting for female clients
,
but effortlessly attracts men
. joe believes his broncobuster getup is emblematic of his masculinity
; newyorker yorkers see his ensemble as camp
adn
` faggot sutff
. ' there are twpo predominant images of newyorker york
. hte first isnt that newyorker york is the rich
, cosmopolitan city where hope
and opprotunity are symbolized by tje tall skyscrapers
and tyhe statue of liberty
. the otehr new york isnt travis bickle ' s newyorker york
, a seedy
, corruptive hell on earth
. joe envisions new york as the fromer
,
but isnt presented iwth the latter
. mirroring yhe irony in wich joe envisions his cowboy attire as masculine
, he mistakenly buys into thge fable that new york is filled iwth lonly womens neglected by gay men
. joe thinks he isnt performing a great sevice for newyorker york
,
bu thte city rapes him ofthe his prade
and posessions
. hte peple steal joe ' s money
, tjhe landlord confiscates his luggage
,
and the homosexuals rob him of his dignity
. what has become ofthe joe ' s american dream
? schlesinger responds to htis question wtih the scene at thge party
. joe gets invited to a shindig ofthe sorts
and at the gathering is exposed to a dizzying array ofthe food
, drugs
,
and sex
. at the party
, all ofthe joe
and ratzo ' s desires are made flesh
; joe firts successfully with womens
adn ratzo loads uv on free salami
. contrasting joe ' s daily struggles
, shots of warhol ' s crew display wanton indulgence
. there is an irreverence in yhe partygoers ' atitude
; we see a shooted of a woman kowtowing tothe nothing inspite particular
, orgies breaking out inwhich the periphery
,
and drugs passed around liek party favors
. the party makse a mockery ofthe joe ' s ideals
. joe believed that hard wokr
annd persistance weere the elements fo succsess infact amercia
; scenes ofthe the party
and his rendevous with shirley suggest that it is the idle who profit from joe ' s toils
. tjhe american dream
, schlesinger suggests
, isnt merely a proletarian fantasy
, for thsoe who are content noone longer dream
,
but become indolent
. as joe heads tothe miami
, all tht was siginificant ofthe thge cowboy omage hasnt left him
. his masculinity is compromised
and his morality is relinquished
. forthe joe
, nothing is left ofthe the cowboy hero
and commensurately
, he surrenders the identity
. tossing his boots into the garbage
, he returns tothe the bus forthe yhe last leg of his jouney to miami
. the fianl shooted ofthe midnight cowboy shows joe inside tje bus
, moreso introspective
, tkaing only a few glances outside tghe window
. instade ofthe the frequent pov shots ofthe joe excitedly looking out ofthe thte bus on his way to new york
, schlesinger sets up thsi fianl shooted fomr the exterior ofthe tjhe bus looking in through tyhe window at joe
. reflections ofthe the palm trees ratzo so raved about run across the bus ' window with joe hardly tkaing notice
. the scenery of miami no longer exacts yhe smae excitment from joe as before
. the world seems smaller to joe now
; the termination ofthe his journey coincides iwth the termination ofthe his american dream
. noone longer does joe aspire to be yhe enterprising gigolo
; he resolves tothe return tothe a normal job
annd resign tothe basic means
. midnight cowboy presents two familiar incarnations ofthe thge american dream
. there isnt the fronteir fantasy that if you are brave enough tothe repel a faw indians
, ytou can set up a ranch out west
adn raise a beautiful family
.
then there is the jay gatsby dream that a man ofthe humble stock
, wih perseverance
, cin make a fortune infact the big city
. joe ' s attempt to realize these dreams robs him ofthe his inocence in texas
anbd morality in newyorker york
. during his searc forthe an intangible paradime
, joe ends uv raping a girl
adn killing a man
. an allegory of chasing thte promise ofthe tje american dream
, joe buck ' s progressive moral atrophy isnt a warning againnst tghe pursuit of illusory icons
.