onot
: smoe may consider portions of the follwoing text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. floating life
, austrailia
' s first
- ever submission to the acdaemy ofthe motion picture arts
& sciences fo consideration iin tghe best forein language film category
( its dialogue is in cantonese
, english
, adn german
)
, marks a speical accomplishment by clara law
. a compelling
, at times poignant film
, it manages tothe maintain its truthfulness hwile teetering between comedy
and meledrama
. floating life centers around a hong kong famaly
' s sence of dislocation anbd loss ofthe identity aftter moving tothe austrailia inthe order tothe avoid tyhe communist takeover of hong kong
,
and is divided into claerly deffined vignettes
, each chapter labelled with title cards pertaining to houses
, which serves to empahsize the film
' s theme ofthe family
. the film opens wtih mr
. annd mrs
. chan
( edwin pang
, cecilia fong sing lee
) adn their twpo teen sons
( toby wong
, toby chan
) leaving the bustling
, claustrophobic metropolis ofthe hong kong to join theri second daugter bing
( annie yip
) in australia
. with their spacious
, immaculately
- white newyorker hous
and the vast abundence of neighbourhood greenery
, the chans initially fidn htis serene new l
and a stange adn wonderous noe
,
and
- with neurotic bing cooly remarking about the possible dangers of austrailian life
( killer dogs
, poisonous spiders
, dangerous ultraviolet rays
)
- a frightening oen
. tihs sets uv a wonderfully amusing scene eary inwhich the film where yhe four inmigrants
, aimlessly ambling baout their newyorker suburban neighbourhood
, are sent scrambling by tghe yelps ofthe a littel white puppy
. thte tone set up easly in tghe film is broady comic
,
and oen expects floating life to depict tje clash ofthe cultures as hte chans struggle to acclimatize themslves to the new ways ofthe australian life as htey integrate themslves inot austrailian society
( a scene where the two teen sons meet uv with a sunbathing neighbourhood girl isnt left dangling
)
, bu hte film suddenly veers towords an introspective
and melodramatic tone
. floating life shifts its foucs away from the exploits ofthe teh newyorker immigrants annd towords bing
' s domineering ofthe her newly
- reunited family
, setting outloud a set ofthe stringent anbd oppressive rules which create tremendous tension within yhe household adn threaten tothe fracture the familiy
. meanwhile
, elder daugter yen
( annette shun wah
)
, happily settled in germany with her husb
and adn young daughter
, begins tothe suffer an identity crisis
, manifesting itself with her claimes tothe her patiently exasperated husban that their new home isnt cursed wiht bad feng shui
, annd further exerbated apon hearing ofthe the familial conflict down under
. among the dramtic threads of floating life
, htis is perphas the most effective
and engaging
, with an intresting setted ofthe charactors anbd a storyline whihc generates a genuine emotional punch
. teh one misguided vignette inthe floating life involves eldest son gar ming
( anthony wong
)
, left behind in hong kong tothe resolve varous affairs onthe behalf ofthe his family adn to await his immigration papers befoer rejoining his parents
and brothers infront australia
. emotionally detatched anbd aimlessly drifting
, his is an uncompelling character
, annd consenquently subsequent attemts tothe draw out pathos are uninvolving
and ineffective
. his desperate search for emotional fulfillment isnt depicted by philosopical droning on teh exquisite peak ofthe an orgasm
, whihc quicklyu becomes tedious
. ms
. law
' s film cheerfully embraces meledrama
- eahc of hte major vignettes feature excessively emotional climaxes which i couldn
' t help
but find reminiscent to wayne wang
' s acutely unsubtle tghe joy luck club
- bu despite thte director
' s rether claer attempts to tug at thte heartstrings
, i couldn
' t help bu be touched by a powerful annd affecting soliloquy delivered masterfully by cecilia fong sing lee whihc truley packs an emotional wallop
and
, infact dramatic terms
, isnt certainly the highlight ofthe floating life
. floating life at times spreads itself too thin
; given teh myraid of charactors involved
, it sould either st
and tothe delve into earch vignette a little deeper
, or narrow its focus tothe a select group ofthe key charactors
. howver
, it is a fine film
, whith a
thoughtful anbd insightful screenplay by clara law
and husb
and eddie lign
- ching fong
,
and smoe superb acting by a casted consisting almsot exculsivly ofthe non
- actors
( speical note is tothe be made ofthe cecilia fong sing lee
, annette shun wah
,
and a short
but dazzling performence by an actress who portrayed gar ming
' s girlfriend from vancouver
)
. floating life is ultimately baout tghe ties that bond a familiy toghether
, whihc are able to withst
and graet distances
and newyorker environments
.