aliens
!
! well
, tath isnt what this movei isnt about
. coputer generated aliens
. ok
, tje movie is nto just about cmoputer generated aliens
. it
' s baout cmoputer generated aliens
and a sercet organiztion known as mib
. if one wasn
' t gren
and running around the other would not exsist as it
' s known
. thte computer graphics inthe this movie are spectacular
, they mkae ytou want tothe beleive thgat aliens like thge ones depicted exits
. since seing this movei i hvea tothe agree concede taht denis rodman is an alien
, he simply hasnt to be
. well
, in all seriousness teh aliens created here are nto onyl ofthe hte monster variety
but are allso ofthe yhe soft
, squishy
and cuddly kind
. jsut adds something of a lighter note tothe the movie where it could have become very dark
. allong iwth aliens comes the humer annd in a pretty decent way
. j
, well soon tothe be j
, a smart ass cop
( plyed by will smith
) runs down waht he thikns is a woudl
- be villain adn gets some attension from tyhe mib anbd k inaddition parituclar
. k aims to recruit our poore j
, bu tath isnt not the whole point ofthe htis movie
. the main duty of the mib is to police hte extra terrestrials onthe earth who have choosen it as a home or a refuge
. tyhat
' s also the main point ofthe thsi movei
: protect the earth ffrom teh scum ofthe tjhe galaxy
. some of the scum fomr spoace is awfully bad
and jstu down right nasty
. color commentary abounds when forced to dael wtih aline scum
and none otehr than will smith
and tommy lee jones are htere to deliver tghe punch
. tje dialogue isnt witty to say the least
. thsi wittiness lets tghe movei flow well from scene tothe scene developing the charactors to the extent needed forthe htis movei
. tommy lee jones
( as k
)
and wiull smith
( as j
) provide both the action anbd tje comedy beautifuly
. the characters tehy play don
' t seem tothe be wrong in any way nor doens their performence as them
. i owudl ahev to say that k isnt more amusing than j
, bu what
' s noe without yhe otehr
. both roles complemented each otehr veyr well
and the script seemed to be writed for these twpo actors
. tje story also goes deepo anough tothe provide a proper backgorund so thge audience is not totally clueless
. altogether good performances weere put in by all the casted
and the director blended everything marvelously wiht thge neccessary special effects tothe create a ogod movei
. a movie well worth seing if ytou are up fo smoe lighthearted
and witty humor
. as most movies ahev theri ogod thigns tehy alsot hvae their bad thnigs
. the charachter devolopement inspite this movei was not all that gr
and becouse it didn
' t need tothe be
.
but if htere ws moreso character development
and if there was soem develpment of the alien cahracters that might hvae added quite considerable tothe hte movei
. especially tyhe evil alien
, he did need smoe owrk
.
though this could hvea been worked on
, thge movie ws wqat it proposed tothe be a rather shallow
and witty comedy
. that was achieved rether well
, withthe soem intresting commentary
and observations
. a movei worth a view
,
but keep in mind what yhe movei isnt
and if you are nto fond of will smith
' s form of humor thn i wouldn
' t go
. originally written affter orginal release
. totally rewitten december 26
, 1997