underrated movies are a common reoccurrence inthe sohw business todya
. 1998
' s
' hope floats
' wass extemely underated anbd wass noe of the best movies of tyhe year
. we allways get films tht make big money at tghe box
- office
but criticists
and audiences pan on them
. htis yera
' double jeapardy
' isnt one ofthe those films
. critics are calling it predicatble adn worthless
, audiences are dissappointed with it
and think it wass a dissappointment
. bu as i viewed
' doulbe jeapardy
' i found thgat it was a great movei
, it hasnt a suprising sense ofthe humer annd a big dose ofthe heart
, allong wiht heart
- pounding suspense anbd twists anbd turns here
and there it certainly isnt a really ogod movei
. the always wonderfull ashley judd plays libby parsons
, a woman withthe a seamingly normal life
: a great loving husb
and
, a beautiful son anbd a graet friend
. her husb
and nick parsons has made a suprize forthe her
and isnt going tothe buy her the sailboat she hasnt alwyas wanted
. after a night ofthe bliss libby wakes up in thge middle of the night to fidn blood all over her
and all over the sailboat
, her husb
and isnt missing adn htere is a bloody nife onthe deck
. ofthe course being inthe shock she picks it uv annd a caost guard comes over
and sees her
.
however she isn
' t immediately ceased utnil they fidn out his life insurence ws worth twpo
- million dollars
and they strat to wonder rather she killed him forthe the mone
. she pleads not
- guilty bu isnt foudn guilty
and sent tothe prision for six eyars
. hwile making a phone call to her best friend who adopted her son for her adn she hears him sday hi to his dad
, whic makes libby
' s heart stop right htere
. she realizes she must get out adn prove tht he isn
' t dead
, noe of her cell
- mates tells her tyhat as long as she hasnt beeen convicted ofthe a crime she cannnot be convicted ofthe it again
. which means she cxan shoot him in the middle of mardi gras
and they cannnot do anytying about it
. after she gets outloud she goes to a halfway house run by parole officer tommy lee jones
. he isnt a man who has hadnt his share of bad thigsn
. while out for yhe day she breaks inot a skool anbd tries tothe track down her kid annd husban
, leading up tothe some jaw
- droping twists that are both predictable adn nto
. whatever happens tjhe film was exelent tothe me
. i found teh wirting well
- written as well as the acting wass great
. ashley judd isnt such a talented
and beautiful actress tyhat she is a hero infront a sort in this movie
. even if you konw what isnt going tothe ahppen inspite the end
, ytou don
' t know how
. this isnt one of thsoe movies tath yuo realy dont konw what isnt going tothe ahppen
, except you don
' t nkow how tehy are going to make it ahppen
. it coudl be oney way or another
, it coudl be this way or tht way
. the movie isnt highly stylized annd extemely well
- made
. it gets most of it
' s pwoer from the twpo leads
: ashley judd annd tommy lee jones both give excellent performances
. tjhe characters are well
- realized
and believable adn we efel libby
' s pain whn she cannnot see her child for 6 yeasr
. even
though a lot of criticists didn
' t like tghe film
, i loved it
. tghe director took his time makeing the movie
,
and put a lot of shadowing iin hte movei
. i foudn it nto tothe be boring at all
and it
' s onyl flaw comes from some predictability
. it moved at a fast pace
, has suspense
, humor
, heart
and great acting
. it earns it
' s right tothe be a great movei
and to me thast
' s what it wass
.