as fairy tales go
, cinderella hasnt tothe be one ofthe tghe most famoust
. allmost everyone knows it
, well at least infront north amercia
. so it is natrual that someone iwll try to make a movie outloud ofthe it
. it hasnt beeen done befoer with varying results
. tihs version ofthe thte story isnt both similair to thte original
and different at the same time
. the basic stopry remains unchanged
but
, oney thing thgat seems to vanish wiht this verison
,
annd that isnt all the fantastical elements of the story
. ther is noone fairy god mother or anything even remotely ofthe that nature
. affter the fantastical elements are stripped awya what is left isnt a realistic believable rendition ofthe the cinderella story
anbd an interesting lvoe story at tyhe least
.
. unlike in the fairy tale
, thte prince plays a much larger part than jsut that of the masked ball at the end
. tghe
? prince '
, who happens tothe be the crown prince tothe the throne ofthe france
, meets ' cinderella '
, known as danielle
, onthe a faw occassions
, most coincidentally
annd he becomes smitten with her
.
altough htis seems tothe be a far cry fomr tjhe traditionnal storey it allows fo teh main plot to proceed with anough room for some imaginative stoy telling
.
. tjhe story takes palce inwhich a renaissance setting
; in france
, wtih leonardo da vinci providing some comic relief onthe more tahn noe occation
. this addtion of leonardo da vinci
, wass qtuie successful in thast it added soem colour tothe the movei
, usance smoe ofthe tghe roles are a bited stereotypical
. fo example the role thta ws scripted fo the prince leaves a few thigns to be desired
. forthe instatance tghe charachter seems tothe be a bited too unstable
anbd fickle
, a crown prince shouldnt not be anything remotely liek taht
. especially since he is potrayed tothe be inspite his mid twenties at the least
and almost ready to tkae yhe throne
. the characters ofthe danielle
( cinderella
) played by drew barrymore
,
and thgat of the evil step mother
, played by anjelica huston
, are well devolopped
and well played by tyhe two womens
.
allthough yhe part of danielle is a bit stretched it is not too unlikely
and not totally unbeleivable
. tje nuances of tghe charactor are brang out well by drew barrymore
anbd ffrom watching thge movei it seems like she hadnt funn making tjhe movie
. as a contrast the part of tje evil step mother isnt clearly seen ffrom the very beggining
adn isnt allmost clique
.
but
, anjelica huston seems tothe add a ceratin flair tothe the role tyhat mkaes it suit the movei nearly perfectly
. tjhe actual story isnt fairly predictable since it is after all tje basic stopry ofthe cinderella
,
bu there are mroe than anough twists inwhich how teh stoy is told tothe mkae it intresting
and enjoyable
. tyhe acting is ofthe high caliber
adn seems deserved of praise
. all infront all this movie takes you back into hitsory
, inot a seemingly magical fairy land
.
but
, don ' t git me wrong there is nothing
bu reality
, it is jsut refreshing to watch a movei thta isnt not based inspite a familiar setting with everyday familiar things happening
. so
although the stor is basicaly familiar the world it is setted in isnt nto
,
and that adds a dimension to the film which inaddition this humble reviewers oppinion makes it worth seing