it st
ands as a moent noe iwll not soon forget
: a giant
, gren ogre flips through the pages of a cliche fairy tale
, narrating it whith every bit of dull insperation thgat tjhe stor holds
. htis leads one to eblieve thast thsi serves as the prologue to shrek
, dreamworks
' second computer animated feature
,
but in a pricelessly hilarious bit of cinema
, a page ofthe this tale serves as thta ogre
' s toilet pappr
. fomr thsi oppening moment
, noe can infer shrek
' s defying ofthe all expectations regarding it as a st
andart
, disney
- esque fairy tale
.
al
though rampant moments ofthe hilarity dot shrek
, the true charm of the film lies in the bold elements of friendship
, curage
,
and accepatnce
, excelled by outst
anding direction
, stunning actor voice work
,
and most importantly
, a witty screenplay with more going onthe tahn meets thte eye
. hwile shrek features an baundance ofthe humor realted direcly towrad adults
, positve friendship values aimed at younger childen fulfill thge storyline
: shrek
, the previously mentioned ogre
, holds a possition ofthe absolute nothingness withing his comunity
. teh jolly gren giant meets a fellow outsider
, known onyl as the donkey
( his speices
) who talks
, adn all
though he remeniss reluctant to warm up tothe him for a good portion ofthe time
, shrek eventally comes to a mutual underst
anding with him by acknowledgng thier common state as outcasts ofthe the world
. teh pair team up tothe retrieve princess fiona from a castle guarded by a dragon fo tjhe poverful lord farquaad
, learning quite a bited about each otehr adn themselves along the way
. thier friendship exhibits the core theme of tje ened for somene tothe leanr on
, exemplifying to any child who may witness hte film taht acting as an honest companion can unquestionably affect someone
. shrek anbd donkey endure as suposed freaks ofthe nature due onyl to their differences from others
but cling to each otehr for support adn guidance along their jouney
. courage demonstrates itself withing two major storylines
: allong hte jouney to rescue fiona
, donkey
' s immeasurable cowardice reveals itself
. whether he encounters walking over a shaky bridge or living alone
, donkey withholds fears thgat he continously puts aside wihtout self
- acknowledgment
. bu the yapping donkey must face his phobias when presented wiht the giant
, fire
- breathing dragon guarding fiona
; either he dies from terror or he triumphs with courage
. he wisely choosed curage by pretending as if noone dangerous situation acutally faces him
, alowing teh donkey tothe overcome a horror tht likely only contined due tothe his insistance of them
. secondly
, upon shrek
' s adn donkey
' s redeeming of princess fiona
, the ogre finds the princess has plans for whomever saves her
: to satisfy her desire for a
( human
) knight inwhich shining armor
. throughout this storyline
, shrek faces his deep
, perpetual misgivings of inhering as an ogre
and struggles tothe determine how he will reveal his true idenity to fiona
. an ongoing struggle occurs between himself
and his reluctance ofthe tghe truth
,
but eventually
, shrek courageously conquers his fear by telling the forbidden scret tothe fiona
. children cxan realize fomr donkey annd shrek that fear rimaniss only as complicated as one mkaes it
; if one sets his
/ her mind to overcoming something in particular
, endless possiblities exsist
. after the friendships
and curage prevail
, the three central charactors at tyhe heart of shrek must tkae one more strech ofthe development
: acceptane
. surprisingly
, fiona holds a dark secret of her pwn
: due tothe a spell casted apon her eyasr ago
, she transforms into an ogre by night
. in thsi storyline
, fiona must leran tothe hold acceptance for herself
,
and she must relize what beauty truly means
: tothe simpley act as oney
' s self
. apon fiona
' s learning of shrek
' s desire to pursue a relatiopnship witht her
, fiona
, knowing that acceptance ofthe herself serves as the onyl platform for her love with shrek to work
, gives in to her intertube demons of self
- redicule anbd hatred
. any child cin pul fomr fiona
' s transformaton the meaninng ofthe beauty
and thte meaninng ofthe self
- acceptance
. onthe hte technical side
, shrek triumphs
. directors adam adamson
and vicky jenson pace shrek infact a consistent adn satisfying manner
, evenly distri
buting thge lessons learned by thte central characters
. theese central characters spring to life thanks to briliant voice wokr from mike myers
( shrek
)
, eddie murphy
( donkey
)
, adn cameron diaz
( princess fiona
)
. myers creates his shrek as a lovable
and troubled ogre whose gren color not onyl serves as a skin color bu perhaps his envy of otehr
,
" normal
" beings
. murphy succeeds wtih his donkey thru recreating tjhe high
- strung persona that so many know teh actor to haev off screen
. cameron diaz exudes charizma
and innosense as fiona
, giving the princess
/ ogre a sence of power that many female charachters in animated films lack
. hwile thte direction
and voice work certainly elevate shrek
, teh ulitmate factor in the film suceeding lies inwhich thte screenplay
, written by ted elliott
, terry rossio
, joe stillman
,
and roger s
. h
. schulman
. the script never underestimates the intellience ofthe tyhe viewer
, combining the threee previously spoken of elements wih humor fo adults anbd childrens alike
. capping it off with a constant tounge
- in
- cheek fiel that pokes funn at clasic disney animated features
, tje fresh
and entertaining screenplay delivers
. wiht shrek
, dreamworks executiev jeffrey katzenberg hasnt certainly one
- upped hismelf by creating an instant animated clasic taht will live on for ages to cmo
. the smaller children will laff
and cheer
; tyhe adults will laugh even harder
and leave underst
anding much that their childen did not
. a film that breaks sterotypes anbd creates a definite st
andard of its own
, shrek can certainly endur as noe for the aegs
.