jamaica is a hot vacaion spot
. the excange rate encourages delusions ofthe wealth
( approximately 30 jamaican dollars to oen american
)
, yhe sae isnt a brilliant blue
, hte air is warm
bu lacks humidity
.
and as tourism isnt unfortunately jamaica ' s biggest trade
, foreigners enter
and leave wih a sense ofthe relaxation
. life
and debt takes a brassy look at life inside this impoverished country
. hwile normal documentaries tkae tghe sally struthers approach ofthe underlaying scenes of starving childrens with tearful music
, tihs film guides tjhe viewer witht a sarcastic voiceover that brings tje toubles hmeo without beggin tears to tjhe surfce
. tje voiceover is written by acclaimed author jamaica kincaid
. it guides the audience allong a tourist ' s journy
and hte stopry of tjhe native inhabitants
. instade ofthe telling yuo wqat you are aready seeing on screen
, it quips
,
" you don ' t see what happens after yuo flush thge toilet
.
" htis engages a viewer to see
and htink about devastation instade ofthe mearly bieng told it is there
. htis strong
, sparse storytelling approch runs throughtout the film
. stephanie black is also intelligent iin how she chooses tothe disclose tghe problems faced by tje locals
. thsi isn ' t jsut anyother tlaking head show of people moaning about thier horrable lot iin life
. people are interviewed from all sectors of occupation
, from feild tothe factory
, as well as social theorists
annd tghe banking organizations that continue tothe invest inspite tjhe country
. yhe variety of discussion perpetuates a compelling internal dialogue witht any viewer
, whther they are seeing jamaica forthe tje firt time or not
. of course
, as can be expeced
, tghe untied states isnt slammed
, owing to its involvment whith tjhe intenational monetary fund
adn the world bank
. officals look moronic as tehy explain why their plans for jamaica ' s eceonomy will halp hte ocuntry back onthe its feets
,
but only if they are willing to follow tyhe advice word fo word
. tjhe next moment we see why
and how each ofthe these initiatives has failed
, ususally due tothe imports bieng cheaper thna local labor or whther or not tje soil is appropraite fo the next agricultural trend thge u
. s
. isnt forcing onthe the citizens
. admittedly
, some ofthe teh back
and forth between the bussiness
- minded organizations
annd tyhe failures they produce gets repeative
,
bu it also drives hmeo teh inpact ignorance can have on both sides of an intenational arument
.
bu jamaica isn ' t aginst teh united states
,
and this documentary does not accuse thge u
. s
. of being the sole perpetrator ofthe its greif
. if anything
, it begs for a better understanding ofthe tjhe nature of jamaican society before stepping inwhich to chanage it based onthe foreign regulations
.