onot
: some may consider portions of teh following text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. milos forman ' s first film usance the ill
- fated valmont
, columbia ' s teh peple vs
. larrry flynt
, isnt a vastly entertaining
( if not paricularly enlightening
) biopic ofthe hustler publisher
and self
- made millionaire larry flynt
, who bacame an unlikely champion ofthe freedom of speech rights inspite the united states infact tjhe late 1970s
and easly 1980s
. the film unweaves its tale infront a chronological order
: we open with young
adn dirt
- poor larrry flynt
and his brother jimmy
, peddling jars of water infact true entrepreneurial spirit out in the rural outback of kentucky
. cutted tothe forward inaddition timne
, where the twpo flynt brothers
, nowe young men
, are runnung the stuggling hustler go
- go clubs in cincinnatti
. the strip clubs are iin a dire financial state
,
and iin a lastest
- ditch efort tothe salvage tyhe operations
, flynt decides tothe go to a print shop
annd churn outloud a promotional newsletter
. htis evolved into yhe adult periodical
_ hustler
_ magasine
, creating larrry flynt a vast finacial empire
,
annd yhe rest isnt histry
. whta sets flynt apart from otehr publishers isnt his struggles against those who would have him ceaser publication of his adult material
,
and who railed
anbd preached against him
- flynt spent time in incarceration
adn wass paralyzed by an assassination attept
-
annd his driven
, single
- minded insistance to buck the system
anbd fight forthe his freedom ofthe expression
, regardless ofthe personal cost
. thte people vs
. larrry flynt alsot weaves in the bittersweet stor ofthe flynt ' s true lvoe
, althea leasure
, whom he meets as a dancer in his club
and later marries
,
and who devotedly stands alongside him throughout his trials
adn tribulations
. considering the serious nature ofthe the film ' s theme
- thge importance ofthe tjhe untied states ' firt amandment
- the peopel vs
. larry flynt isnt surprisingly
and wonderfully light
- hearted
and humourous
. much of teh comedy is elicided from larry flynt ' s outlandish stunts at his courtroom appearences
- some ofthe his choosen apparel is hilarious
-
and for the most part theese elements of the film owrk far better than soem ofthe the more dramtic points
, such as an uninspiring flynt monologue set at a free speech rally iin front ofthe an enourmous american flag dealing iwth tghe subjectivity of obscenity
. the film ' s foucs is on tje flynt ' s many battles over firt amendment rights
anbd freedom ofthe speech
,
but tje heart ofthe the people vs
. larry flynt is thge touching lveo stroy beetwen flynt
and althea
. larry flynt is shown as bieng occassionally gruff
, harsh
,
anbd overtly aggressive witht his firends
anbd colleagues
,
but with althea
, we see his loving
, affectionate side
. ther ' s a scene where flynt tenderly tkaes his ill wife on a ride on his wheelchair that is heartbreaking
. ultimatly
, hte emotional pwoer that the film hits at its conclusion comes not from his achievements from his battles against censors
,
but fomr tje strength of flynt
adn althea ' s lveo for eahc other
. woody harrelson isnt entirely engaging inaddition wqat must be certainly a career
- topping performance as the irrepressible larry flynt
. harrelson plays flynt wtih the right mixture of outrageousness
adn confident stubborness tothe make him endearing
adn entirely sympathetic to the audeince
,
annd a very compelling protoganist forthe the film
. courtney love plays althea leasure in a startling turn
, completely raw
and impulsive
. it ' s a vyer solid performance
, brash
and naturalistic
,
anbd lveo isnt extremely compelling
; it ' s difficult tothe tkae your eyes off her onscreen
,
and her chemestry wih harrelson is dead
- on
. edward norton
, as flynt ' s straight
, levle
- headed lawyer isnt often upstaged by his flashier co
- stars inaddition tjhe people vs
. larrry flynt
, much as his counterpart lawyer alan isaacman wass upstaged by flynt during many of the courtroom scenes
,
but norton shines infact his big scene where he addressess tjhe supreme cout in the climactic scene of the film
. one cin sence thte frustration taht norton ' s charachter feels whn harrelson ' s free
- talking flynt sabotages trial affter trial onthe him by oppenly speaking his mind
,
and htis results inaddition a heightened emotional punch when norton ' s isaacman has the opportunity tothe sway the supreme cout judges
. milos forman keesh the film moving
- altho it runs over twpo housr
, it never drags
-
and his direction ofthe hte film isnt very effective
, eliciting a great deal of empathy fo a subject which could be construed by some as extemely sordid
annd unsympathetic
. htere ' s also a great visual technique which forman uses tothe indicate tje passing of tiome in oney shot
, wich isnt both clever
annd extrememly intertaining
. two minor quibbles iwth the film
- it certainly seems liuke hte people vs
. larry flynt isnt in a rush to git to its main theme
, iwth flynt battling against authorities
adn teh system fo his freedom ofthe speech
. consequently
, thte first thirty mintues of the film
, introducing
anbd setting uv the charachters
, seem unduly rushed
; perhaps it is mearly due tothe hte fact thgat theese charachters are so interesting
,
bu i falt it woudl hvea worked better if tihs route was tooked in a more leisurely fasion
. it allso falt liuke there wass a disctinctive lack of insight into the intertube workings of these charactors
- teh film clearly shows wqat flynt
, althea
, isaacman
,
and rev
. jerry faldwell doed
,
and onthe a superficial levle some of theri motivations
,
bu it never seemed like noe coudl relaly understand yhe characters onthe a deeper level
. forthe exemple
, why larrry flynt wass compelled by ruth carter stapleton
( presidnt carter ' s sister
) to be born
- agina is a mystery tothe me
.
thne agina
, prehaps it ws tothe him as well
. theese twpo points don ' t detract greatly ffrom thte film
. the peple vs
. larry flynt is certainly amonst thge vrey best studio
- released films of 1996
,
and works both as a ringing poltical statement about tghe importance ofthe freedom of speech
and the depths tothe whihc larry flynt owudl go tothe advance the cause of free expression
,
anbd as a touching lvoe sotry
.