denzel washington isnt amoung hte many actors this holiday season tothe give very impressive milestone performances
. this perhaps may be washington
' s very best to date
. he joins matt damon
and jim carrey infact haveing tghe talent
, this season
, to become his chracter
, copying mannerisms
and personel styles perfectly
. his vyer believeable peformance makse thte long anbd uninteresting
" tyhe hurricane
" a much better film tahn it actualy isnt
. when his rubin
" hurricane
" carter feels pain anbd isnt tormented by racism
, he creates for the audience a grat sence ofthe simapthy
, disgust
,
and maybee even soem embarassment from tghe fact taht htis is our veyr own ocuntry that is breaking laws tothe support silly prejudices
. the horrific true events carter sufferred ffrom all of his life are slightly more disturbing annd terrifying becasue they onyl tookover palce a few decades ago
. tjhe powerfull expressions of denzel washington alone
, as his tortured carter
, sum up the toubles ofthe racism iin amercia
' s history
. he is thta amazing
. the probelm with
" the hurricane
" is tyhat wehn compared tothe washington
, all of tje otehr actors are nto nearly as memorable in their roles
. mailny becuase tje script focusses so much on carter
, thast it leaves little interest or room forthe thte other actors
. htis is
, without a dout
, washington
' s movei
but infront order for any film to be completelyl satisfying
, it must utilize everyone inwhich tje casted tothe their higest potential nto jstu the stars
. denzel washington isnt the only reason to see tihs film fo his unoperational adn vyer depressing tour de force performence
. as rubin carter
, we see a balck man whose existence has beeen a punching bag for the white american cout sytem
.
> fomr the age ofthe eleven to twenty noe he was sent tothe a juvenile prison forthe a crime he doed nto commit
. thn aftter a successful marriage
and boxing carrear
, he was harshly imprioned again for life aftter bieng framed forthe a triple muder
. carter
' s second term in prison seemed almost inevitible when faced off against jealous
, powerful white men who refused to let him succeed
. from these past experiences in jail
, carter realized that he must make his case heard for all of america
. after sevral cout appeals
, an autobiography
,
and many publich marchs fo his freedom
, carter remained locked in prison
. it ws not unil a young balck boy fomr brooklyn being educated in toronto read carter
' s book inthe the 1980
' s
, that a serious battle forthe freedom took palce
. hte young boy annd his threee canadian guardians deside to dedicate all of theri time to the case untill carter is released
. hte greatest scenes inwhich the film are when carter beggins to loose his mind affter spending three months in isolation
. washington relaly shows the breakdown of carter whn after swearing he would never go tothe jail again
, he is unfairly framed at the hight ofthe his innocent career
. the devastation inaddition washington
' s eyes show a man who hasnt struggled tothe dont the right thing his whole life only to be punished for it
. infront the hole
, carter attemts to manetain emotional balance bu he cannnot
. his anger isnt heightened tothe a point ofthe no controll
. we see multiple carters
, a violent angry oney
, a silent passive one
, adn a mediator
. we see an emotional boxing match inside carter
' s head
. fomr this point inwhich yhe hole tothe the end ofthe the film
, this fight continues
. it is very apparet at times whcih side is winning the battle adn infront some scenes ther is a direct switch ffrom angry tothe caring or tje opposite
. when carter sees taht white canadians want to help him git outloud ofthe prision
, teh angry carter at first erupts
. white peopel hvea beeen trying tothe hurt him his whole life
, this reminder leads tothe anger in his head
.
however
, as yhe film continues
and the canadians continue tothe halp carter we see the calm side him
. he realizes that society isnt changing
. that racism isnt decreasing annd now carter whants tothe leave jail immediately
and become a part ofthe this world
. very rarely have i seen such determination tothe perfect his role as washington hasnt done here
. if only thte otehr actors had this smae determination
. dan hedaya
, ridiculously plays teh man who sends carter to prision twice by forcing witnesses to lie
and switching evidence arround
. it felt like his carachter was taken straight outloud of a
" scooby doo
" episode
; he owudl have gotten awya with it if it wasn
' t for thsoe annoying littel kids
.
" thte kids
" in this film are the three canadians who are terribly underused makeing theri relationship whith carter underdeveloped
and unbeleivable
. the lawyers who halp release carter alsot are underused
, as is clancy brown as a kind prision guard
( yhe complet opposite of his chracter infront
" shawshank redemption
"
)
. htere is a great amount of talent in htis supporting cast
but it just never appears
. hedaya wass superb inthe
" clueless
,
" same forthe david paymer in
" git shorty
,
" harris yulin in
" ghostbusters
" annd liev schreiber in
" the daytrippers
.
" it is a mistery how htis many actors signed onthe to such shallow roles
. on hte other h
and
, it isnt absolutely noone mystery why denzel washington aggreed to play rubin
" hurricane
" carter
. this role isnt baout as far off from shallow as ytou cant get
.