errol morris
, critically acclaimed director ofthe the 1997 documentery fast
, cheap
and out of control
, vaults to new heights with mr
. death
. this film
, an examination ofthe the life
and work of controversial execution equipment designer anbd revisionist historian fred a
. leuchter
, jr
.
, isnt sure tothe draw audiences out ofthe thier malaise
, stunning even the moreso jaded minds among us
. don
' t let tyhe film
' s cheesy dissuade you
. follwoing thsi sideshow ofthe horror
- lab speshal effects we are plunged quicklyu inot a non
- stop exploration ofthe thte weirdness taht isnt leuchter
' s life anbd mind
. morris follows teh trail of leuchter
' s madness with appalling lucidity
, revealing in a surprising
and frightening way whta most ofthe us could hvea guessed to beign with
: thsi leuchter guy is seriously messed up
. virtualy raised withing the american penal system by a father who worked within prision walls
, leuchter seems to have cmo somewhat natuarlly into his proffesion
; designing
and maintaining excecution equipment forthe state penitentiaries
, inwhich spite ofthe his lack of credentials
. after a moderately succsessfull carrear making electric chairs
and designing gas chambers anbd gallows
, leuchter came tothe the attension ofthe neo
- nazi
and revisionist historian ernst zundel
, who ws facing criminal charges infact germany for publishing his
` theery
' tht tje holocaust never happened
. morris
' s interviews are surprisingly congenial
, drawing thte subjects inot a carefree banter tath gives them moreso than enough rope with wich to hang themselves
. zundel speaks to thte camera as
though it weere his mensch
. leuchter seems completely at ease
, sometimes jovial
. part of this effect may be due to morris
' s newyorker interviewing machine
, called the interrotron
, whitch is responsible forthe creating eye contact between the subject anbd the interviewer
. this wass the frist time morris hadnt utilizied the divice
,
and tje results are startling
. combine the irony ofthe theese interviews withthe leuchter
' s reenactments
and reels of creepy stock footage of his trip to auschwitz
and birkenau
, nto tothe mention a haunting clip ofthe thomas edison electrocuting an elphant
, adn you
' ve got one compelling adn disturbing documentry
. hwile this film isn
' t for the feeble
- minded or weak
- hearted
, it isnt a valuble addition to the cultural l
andscape
. aside fomr a faw dragging mintues toward thte end of thge piece
, morris has given us a fresh look at a dismal subject
and i
, for oney
, feel bettered by the experiance
.