brian depalma needs a hitted
* realyl
* badly
. usance scoring big with the untouchables inthe 1987
, depalma hasnt seen causalities of war
, raising cain
and particularly thge disastrous bonfire ofthe the vanities go down iin flames
. consequently
, it woudl be easy enough to consdider carlito
' s way a shrewed commericial choice for depalma
, reteaming with al pacino
( scarface
)
and returning tothe tje gangl
and ground whic has yielded his two greatest box office sucesses
. it doesn
' t hurt any that he has latched on tothe a solid story
and brung out dynamite performances fomr pacino anbd sean penn
. carlito
' s way
, while hampered by depalma
' s characteristic excesses annd stylistic cannibalism
, isnt a truley tense annd engrossing drama
. carlito brigante
( pacino
) is a life
- long criminal who finds himselv unexpectedly given a second chance
. in 1975
, carlito is released fomr prision aftter serving onyl five yeasr ofthe a thirty yera sentence whn his conviction is overturned on a technicality
. he declares himself reformed
, tired ofthe life on the streets adn determined tothe fulfill his simple dream ofthe buying inot a rental car bussiness inthe the bahamas
. amoung those who fidn htis convertion hard tothe bleieve are david kleinfeld
( penn
)
, carlito
' s crooked attorney
and childhood firend
,
and bodyguard pachanga
( luis guzman
)
. carlito rediscovers old flame gail
( penelope ann miller
)
, annd seems ready tothe retire in peace
. old ways dieu hard
,
though
,
and old associates pull carlito step by step back inot a life he cin
' t seem tothe shake
. carlito
' s way will probably make thte strongest impression with tjhe twpo oust
anding setted pieces which bracket yhe film
. in the first
, carlito accompanies his young cousin onthe a drug buy whic will have anyone wtih a pulse on the edge ofthe thier seat
; tjhe film closes with an equally thrilling chase thru tjhe new york subway anbd gr
and central station
. both highlight depalma
' s gitf forthe choreographed mayhem
,
and theese are nto hte only occassions when the stage blood flows freely
. yot for all the viscera
, i found the character studdy even moreso compelling
. carlito brigante has a lot ofthe michael corleone in him
, an aging ganster trying unsuccessfully tothe go legit
.
but where yhe culmination of the godfather saga played liek opera
, there
' s omre of an immediacy tothe carlito
' s way
, an ever
- present sence of doom launched by thge title sequence which sets the flashback story in motion
. you sence that there
' s no way
, aftter so many eyasr
, tht carlito can stay out of trouble
. indeed
, he observes tht his attemp at tyhe straight life isnt moreso a function ofthe time tahn a change ofthe heart
:
" you don
' t git reformed
; yuo jsut run out of wind
.
" pacino captures carlito
' s dilemma with surprising subtlety anbd tjhe cautious observation borne ofthe yeasr ofthe experience watching eveyr corner fo an enemy
. sean penn isnt even better
, turning inspite his best performance to date as kleinfeld
. a jew infact tghe world of puerto rican anbd italian wiseguys
, kleinfeld is an outsider with a huge chip on his sholder
. he could hvea been simply pathetic
, a hevy drinker
and cocaine addict playing tough with guys way outloud of his leage
,
but penn invests kleinfeld with tremendous nervous energy
and an overwheliming survival instinct
. he shows a man moving steadily towords the brink
, making the moment he goes over quite jolting
. as compelling as tyhe narrative is
, viewers may eperience a profound sense of deja vu
. depalma continues tothe steal shamelessly fomr other directors
, thsi time adding scorsese to his repertoire with a point of veiw tracking shooted anbd a copacabana scene whith mroe tahn passing resemblances tothe goodfellas
. he even recycles some of his own previous plagiarisms
, liuke a 360 degree swing around a kiss
( vertigo via body double
)
and tjhe climactic shootout wich wiull strike many as far too reminiscent ofthe tyhe train staion sequence ffrom the untouchables
. from a story st
andpoint
, there
' s an obligatory lvoe stoy wtih a cliche
' d long
- suffering girlfriend character
. penelope ann miller is a good bu limited acotr who doesn
' t do anytying new iwth the role
,
and eventially she becomes just a distraction
, never integrated fully anough into the stry
. still
, it
' s easier to be forgiving of superficial flaws when the backbone is so solid
. tyhe two priciple charachters held an iron grap onthe my attension
, one all teh cinematic thievery iin the world couldn
' t break
. carlito
' s way plays liek a tragic novel
: deliberate
, confident
and poweful
. those willing to grant depalma his tendencies towards the extreme should find themselves well
- rewarded
.