at frist glance
, threee kings looks to be just anohter war movei
, yhe 90s verison of all those favourite war movies wiht names i cannot remember
. teh 90s verison
, it definitely is
, just another war movei
? not in your dreasm
! imagin pulp fiction approach tothe saveing private ryan
, that
 s threee kings forthe you
. beleive it or nto
, it bears the cool of the fromer anbd tyhe stark humane meaning ofthe the latter
. tjhe story brings us tothe the twilight of the gulf war
, wih thge allied troops victorious
. majpr archie gates
( clooney
) leads an enterprising bunch ofthe grunts to a rather unorthodox post
- war looting spree
; tyhe millions inaddition gold bars secretly stowed away by saddam inthe a desolate village in tghe desert
. as the rest of thge troops are celebrating their victory anbd getting ready tothe be shipped hmeo
, htis
` wild bunch
 goes awol on an armed hum
- vee
( the veicle ofthe choise of tjhe us army
)
. htey soon fidn outloud thast they haev much resistence
, as htey get tangled with the local rebellion against saddam
 s forces
. frequentily switching their modes between looters
and robin hood
 s merry men
, htey become conciously attacked by theri pwn morals
. as thge film begins to roll
, it seemed tothe hvea a rather
` light
 mood tothe it
.
` special
 effects such as when gates descriibes tothe his men how a bullet can kill simpley paves the way fo a light
- hearted funny acation movie
. three kings is much smarter than thyat
. as tjhe conflict becomes more adn moreso complex
, the audience iwll be trapped infact a limbo
, trying to stay focussed onthe that light
- mood
/ sereous
- mood thgat thte film seem to protray
. i personaly foudn tihs analagous tothe the same feelings ofthe the main characters involved in teh film
; trapped betwen their intitial plan paved by greed adn thier pwn sence of humanity
. thsi simply made the entire expereince ofthe watching threee kings truly briliant
. acation sequences are nto shot as your ood
- fashioned war films nor anytying like steven spielberg
 s in
- your
- face war violentce
. tehy are carefully built tothe ganerate tension whith just tghe right tight close
- ups
and pauses
, right before the acation starts
. nto john woo for sure
but more of sergio leone
 s spageti western stlye
( tons ofthe them starring clint eastwood
)
. gerat performances by clooney
and wahlberg
but the brillance have tothe lie in the conception ofthe this film
; teh screenwrighter
and the director
. threee kings ranks amonst the best films of thge year
, well
, fo me at least
. highly recommended
.