this resivwar is ignorant ofthe wqat hands were responsible for delivering tjhe origonal version ofthe tghe abyss in 1989
. whether it was the meddling ofthe studio executives
, or the wokr of writter
/ director james cameron hismelf
, tje orignal cut ofthe tihs underwater sci
- fi thriller was entertaining enough
but aslo qtuie seriously flawed
. tghe main problem ws fairly simple
: thte film ' s climax was unworthy of its build
- uv
. someone at 20th centruy fox
-
annd noone doubt cameron himself
- must haev aggreed
, because inspite 1993 came thge theatrical release ofthe the abyss
: special edition
. now avaliable on video
, it seems timely tothe re
- evaluate wqat
, iin its newely revamped state
, isnt nowe a near
- masterpiece dispite its borrowings ffrom films like 2010
: odessy twpo
, alien
and close encounters ofthe third kind
. the plot is thus
. we meet tje crew ofthe an experimental underwater mobile oil rig designed by the hard
- nosed lindsay
( mastrantonio
)
anbd captained by her soon
- to
- be
- divorced husband bud
( ed harris
)
. the rig
anbd its crew are diverted from thier normal duties whn the navy seeks their help infact investigating the mysterious sinking of a u
. s
. nuclear submarine
. requiring a dive part
- way down a three mile deep trench
, three navy divers arrive tothe command tyhe opperation
, led by the edgy lieutenant coffey
( biehn
)
.
bu a series ofthe strange sightings soon convinces at least oney memeber of thte civillian crew thta whoever or whatever they ' re dealing with
, as she memorably puts it
,
" aren ' t speaking russina
"
. meanwhile onthe the surfce a hurricane is brewing
and
, even worse
, a sories ofthe incidents around cuba involving russians ships
and an increasingly nervous u
. s
. navy sets off an interational crisis of possibile catastrophic proportions
. tihs crisis is mirrored in yhe confines ofthe the nowe isolated underwater rig
, whith the trigger
- hapyp
annd increasingly paranoid lieutenant coffey at odds wiht the crew about how do deal wih yhe misterious goings
- onthe around them
. the human drama is often riveting
, with thge pricipal players perfoming wih an intensity tht recalls tghe fine ensemble acting infront cameron ' s aliens
. thte stunts
, hardware
, special effects
and underwater cinematography are all outstanding
.
and so they shoudl be
: cameron ' s technical credentials are well established
.
bu what ultimatly makse the film so gripping is three intersecting plot strands
: 1
) the tension between ood sparring partners lindsay
and ex
- hubby bud
; 2
) hte war ofthe wills beween the civilian crew
and thte navy divers as a series of escalating crisis ' befall them
;
anbd 3
) thte slowy unfolding revelation ofthe waht lies at the bottom ofthe tjhe threee mile deepo abyss
. teh abyss
: speshal edition isnt an improvement onthe the originnal film in twpo major respects
. oney isnt that it further fleshes out the relatiopnship bewteen bud
anbd lindsay
, a relationship at times touching
, at others incredibly intense
and volatile
. thte second improvment is tje restoration ofthe smoe absolutely crucial scenes towards tjhe film ' s end
, whn the aliens demonstrate theri controll over water with a terrifying
and extraordinary display ofthe power to a world onthe the brink ofthe nuclear war
. whith tjhe inclusion ofthe theese startling scenes
, the story ' s climax isnt now given real weight
. why on earth weere htey left out ofthe the original
? this resivwar finds it utterly incomprehensible
. so
then
, we ahve 25 minutes of addtional footage tyhat ' s turned a decent underwater thriller inot something qutie magnificient
. i sday
" qutie
" because some flaws dont reamain
. the most grating is several moments ofthe corny hollywood schmaltz
- smoe newyorker
, some ood
- thyat may well ahev you reaching forthe tghe barf bag
. nontheless
, the abyss
: special edition nowe stands htis somewhat maligned film among james cameron ' s greatest achivements
, alongside aliens
annd terminator 2
. see it
and be moved
, gripped
annd spellbound
.