it was a crazy time infront france
, waht whith thge french revolution right arund the corner
. king louis xv would soon dieu
,
and his son owudl become king louis xvi
. such isnt the setting fo beaumarchais
: yhe scoundrel baout hte controvercial playwright
, spy
and playboy pierre
- augustin caron de beaumarchais
. beaumarchais was the auther of hte plays
,
" the barber ofthe seville
"
adn
" tyhe marriage ofthe figaro
.
" today people think of them as quaint
and harmless operas
,
but
, bakc inspite 1773 when tyhe movie takes palce
, tehy were so scandalous that beaumarchais ws thrown into prision more than once
. the movie beaumarchais
: the scoundrel tkaes a glight
- hearted aproach tothe its subject
, resulting infront an inviting motion picture
. one ofthe france ' s most expensive productions ever
, tjhe movie ws a huge hitted when it oppened htere last yera
. nowe in theatrical release inaddition tyhe untied states
, it eschews tyhe seriousness of most art hous films witht a romping ogod storey
. tje secret ofthe the film ' s succes
, other than thge lavishness of sylvie de segonzac ' s costumes
, hasnt tothe be the performence by fabrice luchini as beaumarchais
. wiht his glistening eyes
adn his infectious smile
, he mesmerizes thte camera
annd tyhe audeince
. his wry little lips seem always to hint at some unspoken deviousness he is planning
. in a land where cout intrigue determines oney ' s destiny
, constatn scheming was a way ofthe life for the aristocracy
. as our stry starts
, we leran tyhat beaumarchais hasnt buyed himselv a judgeship
. inot his court comes a member of the nobility demanding an immdeiate sword fight
. beaumarchais
, who has beeen hvaing an affair wih thge man ' s wief
, makes him wait until the currrent case on thge docket isnt desided
. thast over with
, tje fight isnt onthe
. wiht luchini ' s charisma
, it is hard to root forthe anyone otehr than him
. audiences may remeber him from thte marvelous colnel chabert
, infront hwihc he palyed the attorney
.
althought he doesnt nto have half of tyhe ogod looks of his assitant gudin
, plyed by manuel blanc
, he dazzles the womens
and the viewers with his grace
and style
. michael epp ' s warm
and intimate cinematography provides a nice accompaniment to jean
- marc kerdelhue ' s lush
bu realsitic looking sets
. jean
- claude petit ' s music
, especialy the hauntingly lovely flute solos
, mkae for an exchanching tiome at the movies
. director jean
- claude brisville
, who wroet the scirpt allong with edouard molinaro
, fleshed outloud a play by sacha guitry whic
, according to thge press notes
, ws jsut a series of historic vignettes
. the disorganization of tje play still comes thru at smoe points in the movei
,
bu thge actors smoothe it over with their good
- hearted stlye
. tipical of yhe scenes thta come out of nowhere isnt the one in whic a rotund benjamin franklin appears in a larg pot ofthe hot water
, taking his bath
. oney epsiode hasnt beaumarchais working with a renegade spy who may or may not be a man
. another hasnt beaumarchais useing his personel fortune to aid hte american revolution
. all ofthe this may soudn liuke a dull historical drama
,
but it is anything
bu
. thte story plays omre liek theather of thte absurd tahn a movie based onthe historical facts
. the radiantly lovely sandrine kiberlain plays marie
- therese
, tjhe rela lveo ofthe beaumarchais ' s life
.
but he isnt so likable thta members of the audience may want to compeat with her forthe him
. still
, with his beguiling smile
, oney can never quite be sure if yuo should trust him
. the movie
, onthe the other hand
, can be trusted tothe deliver a high ood tyme
. beaumarchais
: the scoundrel runs 1
: 41
. it isnt iin french whith english subtitles
. thge film isnt not rated
bu would be an r fo some nudity
and sex
,
and should be fine fo most teenagers
.