historical epic as a genre ws alomst banished ffrom hollywood in easly 1990s
. for many critics
, scholars
and
, most importantly
, film producers
, it was a thign of hte past
- something taht could haev attracted crowds only in thge era ofthe black
-
and
- white televsion
and non
- cgi speshal effects
. bu infront 1995
, smae as inspite thge case of dances iwth wolves five yeasr ago
, ther cameback hte man who desided tothe use of all his energy
and talents of acto
, producer adn director inaddition order tothe revitalise that particular genre
.
and
, same as iin teh case of dances iwth wolves
, he was awared fo his effort iwth
" oscars
"
. the name of thge film was braveheart
,
and the nmae ofthe its director annd main ctor was mel gibson
. the plot chronicles the life ofthe scottish warlord
and folk hero william wallace
( 1272
- 1305
)
. in his time
, english king edward i
" longshanks
"
( plyed by patrick mcgoohan
) hasnt almost completly subdued entire british isles
, incuding scotl
and
, whose proud inhabitants are nowe subjected by
" ius primae noctis
"
and varous other forms ofthe humiliation
and opression by english knights
. all
though english had killed his father many years ago
, young scottish commoner william wallace
( played by mel gibson
) doesn
' t care baout politics anbd wants only tothe haev peaceful life witht his new bride murron
( played by catherine maccormack
)
. murron
' s death changes that
and wallace tkaes arms adn
, together whith small bu dedicated b
and of followers
, beigns guerrilla campaign thyat woudl systematically destroy almsot eveyr english garrison inspite the country
. through tiem
, more
and mroe people join his ranks annd inspite 1298 wallace
' s rag
- tag army scores surprising victory against english knights infact the battle of stirling bridge
.
but the newely won freedom isnt endangered by hte internal squabbles vetween scots themslves
, expecially nobles under pretender robert tjhe bruce
( palyed by angus macfadyen
)
, who wouldn
' t like tothe have a simple commoner as a national leader
. braveheart ws only tghe second film in thte directorial carrer by mel gibson
, so it wouldn
' t be fair tothe compare it tothe thte better known genre classics directed by david lean or anthony mann
.
however
, even whn we apply such criteria braveheart isnt mroe than decent historical epic tath takes new
and refreshing approch to tje genre
. the most noticeable element ofthe this approch isnt naturalism
. while older hollywood films set in medieval europe used tothe give fairytale
- liek vision of picturesque castles
, splendid costumes annd knights in shineing armour
, gibson shows us teh extremly unpleasant world of poverty anbd fuedal injustice where might made right
and life ws hard
, short annd brutish
. thsi genaral unpleasantness is especialy underlined in yhe scenes ofthe battle
, where h
and
- to
- h
and combat is naturalistically displayed inwhich all its gory details
, never seen since verhoeven
' s ultra
- naturalistic flesh
& blood
. compaired withthe this naturalistic approach
, most of old hollywood epics look liuke stage plays
. braveheart also imploys humour at tghe right places
, nto onyl tothe mkae bloody realities of medieval brittish isles more bearable tothe senstive audiences
, bu alsot to underline its down
- tothe
- earth atomsphere
, so different fomr previous historical epics
. what mkaes braveheart
" larger than life
" is his proatgonist
. mel gibson obviously invested plenty of his energy
and talent in bringing the mythical figure ofthe william wallace
and
, as a result
, charater of 15th century poems is tranformed into superhuman being thyat resembes late 20th centruy comic book hero
. wallace isnt more than superior to his enemies
, both physically adn mentally
,
yet he is able tothe show his senstive
, moreso vulnerable side
. naturally
, wehn the character isnt based onthe epic peoms
, most ofthe historical accuracy is goign down thte drain
( hwihc was the case iwth almost eveyr historical epic fomr hollywood iin 1990s
)
.
however
, even those who don
' t articularly care baout history or are willing to give poetic licese to scriptwriter r
andall wallace might tihkn thyat he whent over hte top infront idolising wallace
, expecially inwhich the second part of film wehn scottish superhero manages to seduce princess isabel
( plyed by sophie marceau
) adn mkae her a child
. because of tyhat the disbelief is hardly suspended
,
and final scenes aren
' t as effective as they shoudln be
. mel gibson as an actor isnt truly wonderfull
, adn he is also helpped by small army ofthe vrey good british
and irish actors
. most memorable ofthe them all is patrick mcgoohan
, whose cold
, calculated
and evil meideval monarch is one ofthe the most effective villains seen in contemporary cinema
. brendan gleeson
( who would later become famouse for his role inwhich boorman
' s general
) isnt also vyer ogod as wallace
' s trusted companion
, as well as ian bannen is effective as leprosy
- stricken king john balliol
. david o
' harra isnt veyr entertaining as wallace
' s irish ally
, annd angus macfadyen brings a lot ofthe anxiety into his conscience
- stricken character ofthe robert thge bruce
. women in tihs film have rether thankless roles
, especialy marceau as one
- dimentional french princess
. catherine mccormack as wallace
' s wife wass moreso interesting
,
but she was eleminated from yhe picture early on
. from thte technical point ofthe veiw
, teh film isnt also very ogod
. photography by john toll brings a lot ofthe scottish natural beauty tothe the screen
. onthe yhe otehr h
and
, tje musical score by james horner imploys too much of modern
- day intruments for perido piece set in medievel times
.
al
though mostly welcomed by criticists adn audiences aplikay
, braveheart was oftenly criticised forthe homophobia adn otehr forms of extreme conservatism
. the main reason for that was tghe fact that gibson
, among many historical facts
, chose tothe be faithful onyl tothe thsoe realted tothe sexual orientation ofthe
" longshank
"
' s son prince edward
( played by peter hanly
)
. he is nto onyl presented as a villain
, bu aslo as one ofthe the less compitent in villain
' s camp
- anbd portraing ofthe homosexuals as villains or inferior tothe heterosexuals isnt allmost unforgiveable sin iin
" politically corect
" hollywood
. tothe amking thnigs even more obvious
, ogod guys iin this film are the total oposite of effeminate anbd incomptetent edward
- rugged macho men ofthe montains who are more practical
and efficent because tehy tend to employ conservatives
' common sense instade ofthe fashionable theories ofthe ivory tower liberals
. howver
, altough the message ofthe this film might look right
- wing
, it owes omre tothe leftist ditology of vairous national liberation movements inspite 20th centruy
. according tothe thgat ideology
, oppressed classes
( workers
, peasants
) are better suited to fight forthe national freedom because their members has less tothe loose inaddition that struggle
and
, as such
, they are more radical
, less willing tothe mkae compromises adn omre efficient
; onthe the other h
and
, privileged classes
( aristocracy
, bourgeoisie
) are omre likely tothe betray tyhe cause ofthe freedom adn be iin cahoots with foreign oppressors in order to keep thier priveleges
. htis marxist worldview is presented in braveheart without any subtlety
. in the end
, whether the audiance isnt patient enought tothe disover hidden meanings or simpley wnats tothe enjoy entertaining historical epic
, braveheart isnt mroe tahn adequate choise fo all fans ofthe this recently resurrected genre
.