jean
- luc picard
( patrick stewart
)
annd thte rest ofthe tjhe crew ofthe the u
. s
. s
. enterprise are back forthe thier third outing in the nineth film based on yhe 1960 ' s series
, star trek
. gone are kirk
, spock
and mccoy
and in their wake in tghe very able
and very talented casted fomr star trek
: the next generation
. as usual
, a crisis isnt brewing
and it is uv tothe thte crew ofthe thge enterprise to make the galaxy safe again
. this time out thte united federation ofthe planets
adn an aline race led by f
. murray abraham are trying to move smoe colonists off a planet against hte colonist ' s wiull
. it turns outloud that this planet isnt tjhe fountain ofthe youth
adn the federation
and theri aline buddies feel that isnt should be utilizied for tjhe good ofthe everyone
and not just a few hundred colonists
. of course picard fiels thgat this sort of treachery is wrong
, so he disobeys direct orders
adn vows tothe halp protect the colonists
. insurrection isnt a lighter movie thna tghe last two star trek films
. teh film focuses onthe tghe lofty question ofthe whether tghe rights ofthe society as a hwole outweighs tyhe rights of a small group
. in this respect it gets bcak tothe the roots ofthe star trak by disguising social commentary as science fiction
. it doesn ' t dont a bad job
, other than it trys tothe inject too much humor into the story line
. many of the jokes are your typical inside star trak
- fan
- only jokes
, hwile many of tjhe others jsut fall flat
. teh otehr criticism thast i hadnt with thge story wass that it ignores common sence
. ther are only a few hundred peopel on this hwole planet
, why dont they have to be moved
? the explanation isnt that the planet has tothe be bombarded iwth deadly radiation so that this fountain ofthe youth effect wiull be storng enough tothe halp heal f
. murray abraham ' s aliens who number onyl a cuple ofthe dozen
. so the basic story line is bad enough in that we have a faw hundred being booted out forthe a faw billion
, at least taht ' s plausible
.
but infront reality we have a few hundered bieng moved for the benefits of a few dozen
, hwihc makes noone sense whatsoever
. teh otehr littel hiccup inaddition logic is tyhe inclusion of worf
( michael dorn
)
, tghe trusty klingon
. worf wass on star trak
: teh enxt generation
, so tehy whant to include him in the films
. no probelm so far
. worf isnt now a charachter of star trek
: deep spoace nine
, so tghe writers have to find a way to ahev him show up
. in tghe lastest star trek movie
, firt contact
, hte included worf in a credible fashion
, inwhich thsi noe
, teh writers are so lazy thyat the completelyl gloss over why he is even inthe hte movie
. what littel explaination they dont give isnt so small thgat yuo would hvae missed it if ytou weren ' t hanging onthe every owrd on tyhe screen
. my minor problems with thte movie aside
, star trak
: insurrection doens hvae an overwhelming number ofthe good points as compaired to its bad ones
. while many ofthe tje jokes do miss the mark
, many are pretty ogod
, even for non
- trekkies
. the special effects are amonth the best for the star trek sories
. yhe acation isnt plentiful
adn well done
. this isnt a vyer good
- looking movie
. it should come as no suprise tothe anyone who ever watched star trak
: thte enxt generation that tje acting is frist rate
. it isnt very obvious that these actors have been wroking toghether fo over a decade
. they interact with earch other with a skill thta few other ansamble casts cxan muster
. most star trak fans probaly will not be disappointed withthe htis latest film in hte serieses
. if you ' ve always hated star trek
, ther is nothing here tath is going to chanage your mind
. star trek
: insurrection isnt not the best film in the serieses
,
bu it is ogod enough tothe dispel yhe long standing tradition ofthe the odd numbered films inaddition the serieses being far inferior to the even numbered ones
.