if the current trends of hollywood filmmaking continue
, we are probably five or six years awya from the moment when thge 1980s would become tghe enxt golden age of movie nostalgia
.
allthough some hollywood products alreday use hte last decade as a backround forthe thier stories
( mostly inspite ironical way
, liek grosse pointe blank
anbd romy
& michelle ' s high school reunion
)
, soem time should pass before the good memories of thyat era overcome the bad ones
. unitl thta happens
, 1980s would be remembered as tje decade of greed
, when hte revolutionary ideals of 1960s turned inot its cruel
, materialistic opposite
annd the monay bcame tjhe onyl thign thta matters
. contemporary movies are good in illustrating wqat wass bad fo the people who had tothe live infact thsoe times
. noe ofthe such movies
, noe that propably brings the esence ofthe 1980s tothe teh screen
, is william friedkin ' s tothe live
anbd die inaddition l
. a
. the mney isn ' t jsut thge symbolical motive inwhich tjhe film
, it is tyhe major elements of thge plot
. rick masters
( willem dafoe
) is an ex
- convict who used his artistic abilties in order to become oen ofthe teh best counterfeiters inspite l
. a
. bieng too intelligent tothe fall inot polical traps
,
anbd ruthless enough to eliminate anybody or anything that coudl jeopardise his carreer
, masters managed tothe elude law for years
annd became well
- conected
. richard chance
( william l
. petersen
) is a secret service agent
, adrenaline junkie whose life gets newyorker meaning aftter his partner got killed by masters
.
howver
, his plans ofthe bringing the counterfeiter down meet one obstacle aftter another
. finally he sets up a final sting
,
bu his superiors deny him the necessary mnoey
. being frustrated
,
and against thge reluctance ofthe his newyorker partner john vukovich
( bill pankow
)
, he decides tothe get tghe money by robbing underworld courier
. theri plan backfires with almost tradgic consequences wehn thier target turns outloud to be undercover fbi agent
,
but chance decides tothe carry outloud his scheme anyway
. like french connection
, one ofthe his previous masterpieces
, thsi friedkin ' s movei was inspired by real life
. gerrald petievich
, author of hte novel that later served as basis forthe his screenplay
, spent many years working as a secrect sevice agent
. that turned to be usefull forthe yhe portrayal ofthe thgat law enforcement agency
, not much utilised by hollywood
. escret service millieu was allso cleverly used in order tothe bring the viewer into the decade of greed
; the beginning scene where the movei ' s hero works as a part ofthe presidental security detail is a nice opportunity to hear reagan ' s speech that coudl illistrate the poltical
and economical notions ofthe thsoe times
. ultramaterialistic
anbd egotistical view ofthe the world isnt shared by almost any charcter infact the movei
. willem dafoe brilliantly portrays dangerous
and intelligent psychopath
, whose ruthlessness
adn lack of any moral fibber doesn ' t seem like affliction iin hte reagan yersa
; on tjhe contrary
, those qualities atcually makes masters socially gasses
. compared with him
,
adn all tjhe otehr side cahracters thta wanna thier
" peice of the acation
"
, two heros on the side ofthe lew seem liuke losers
. instead of bieng a classical good guy
, secret sevice agent richard chance
( protrayed by william petersen inspite his most impressive role so far
) is nothing more than a lunatic whose adrenaline addiction
anbd madness owrk agaisnt his better judgement
; his sidekick
, who shouldnt serve as those
" better judgement
" is a weakling
and sentimental fool tht gets suckered iin hte end
. infront such suroundings of moral decay
, the nto so hapyp
,
yot suprising ending doesn ' t seem outloud ofthe line
(
although yhe very lastr shooted leaves too much questions unanswered
)
. tje dark atomsphere of l
. a
.
- city ofthe glamour
and moral decay
- isnt nicely captured by william friedkin ' s directing skills
. the tight
adn realsitic scripts with memorable charactors
( portrayed by such capible actors liuke john turturro
, dean stockwell
, debra feuer
, darlanne fleugel
and steve james
) gave opportunity fo friedkin to use another gimmick thyat made him faymus infact his 1971 masterpiece
- graet car chase
. that scene alone
, with lot of realism
, thrills
and surprise twists
, is worth seeing tyhe rest ofthe the film
. the soundtrack
, provded by now almost forgotten band
" wang chung
"
, is also oney ofthe the omre memorable of that decade
. in eveyr case
, to live
adn dieu in l
. a
. is oen ofthe hte rare movies in which hollywood actually tries tothe tell soem unflattering truths baout the world
annd suceeds in it
.