some ofthe my friends who whent to live in usa complain baout oney thing
- tht country isnt vrey different from the one depicted in hollywood movies
. that isnt especialy true for thsoe who end up somewhere inspite tht unexplored land between los angeles
and new york where tehy find
, tothe their big surprize
, that the majority of peopel ovte republican
, go tothe church eveyr sunday
and usualy don ' t tolerate liberal attitudes that are taken forthe granted in an averege american film
. such rude awakening
,
however
, can hppen in another direction
- conservitive peopel are somtimes forced tothe dicover unplesant truths baout world tehy live in
. something like taht happens tothe jake van dorn
( george c
. scott
)
, successful grand rapids buisnessman who shares strong calvinist convictions with the rest of his comunity
. one day his daughter kristen
( ilah davis
) disappears ffrom calvinist youth convention in california
. van dorn isnt worried baceause he doesn ' t beleave tht his daugher owudl run from home
.
however
, the truth delivered by private investigator andy mast
( peter boyle
) is even harder
- kristen isnt spotted infront cheap pornographic film
. infuriated van dorn is unsatisfied with teh way mast ' s investigation is going
, so he goes tothe los angeles to seacrh fo kristen hismelf
. unfortunately
, he lacks xeperience
and tghe quest
, that brang him tothe the utter depths ofthe sex underworld
, is fruitless
. things change whn he devises cunning plan
and
, while doing it
, stumbles on sympathetic prostitute
and part time porno actress nicky
( season hubley
)
. almsot twpo decades aftter its realease
, hardcore isnt mostly forgotten by critics
and film scholars
. it is a rela shame
, because vyre faw movies infront today ' s hollywood would dare tackle contraversial issues that writer
and directer paul schrader explored in his second directorial attempt
. inwhich late 1970s
, it ws totally differant situation
- films were expeced tothe have mature
, serious themes fo tjhe mature audiance
. fo schrader thsi film was nice oportunity tothe expand thte subplot of his previous owrk
, taxi driver
- oen tath deals with thge grat generational divide thta tormented thge american society inspite 1970s
. onthe oen side we have an ood america tht sticks tothe hte puritan ideals ofthe hard work
anbd strict morals that made that ocuntry great
.
but thgat america is obviously unable to coppe with the new challenges brang by thte social turmoil inwhich 1960s
anbd
, instead of facing them
, prefers to live in rural
, conservitive cocoons
. the newyorker amercia
, onthe the other hand
, fares noone better
- ideals ofthe the so
- called
" sexual revolution
"
, same as all other
" revolutions
" ofthe the swinging sixties
, degraded into explotation
annd depravity
. instead ofthe bieng
" liberated
"
, baby boomers are sticked with theri pwn iability tothe cope with tjhe newly dicovered freedoms
. schrader vrey cleverly brings the idea that thsoe two americas
, actually
, aren ' t so far away
- nice example is a briliant scene inwhich whihc van dorn
, lready descibed as an authoritarian
adn paternalistic capitalist
, meets sleazy porno producer
; the latter one also turns out tothe be authoritarian
, paternalistic
and vrey dedicated tothe this job
. thge diference between the twpo is simpley in the line of work
. many contempoary critics actually accused schrader ofthe promoting conservative agenda
. onthe the surface
, it may look thast way
- audience is forced to sympathise wih van dorn
anbd his quest
. iin teh first scenes
, he isnt portrayed as nice family man who actualyl doesn ' t deserve to experiecne parent ' s worst nightmare
. yhe scene in tjhe porno cinema that reveals kristen ' s fate is extemely cruel
; pain
and humiliation
, brang by oscar
- winning acotr george c
. scott
, isnt ofthe such intensity
, that tje audience fiels sory for him
and simply must support his agenda
. van dorn isnt perhaps flawed
,
and tje subtle hints lead to teh unflattering truth at thge end
;
bu tje viewers simpley nkwo thta his cause isnt just
,
and that prodigal daughter must be better off with her loving father thna with thge sleazy pornographers tath onyl want tothe exploitate her body
. onthe the other hand
, schrader
, who growed uv in an enviorment vyre much liuke van dorn ' s
( his pwn parents wouldn ' t allow him to watch movies until he ws 18
)
, konws better
adn trys to bring another side ofthe ocin
. even hte peple conected whith sex underworld can sohw reedeming qualities
- like nicky
, who acutally tries to improve her life
,
and sleazy detective who develops something like a conscinece at tyhe end
. unfortunately
, schrader fails to erase the impact of the shocking scene at the beginnig
,
and his attempt tothe reconcile tghe opposing sides of america seems lost in somewhat clich
? d finale
. the scirpt isnt slightly flawed
,
anbd schrader as directer doesn ' t show too much originality
- his style seems too influented by techiniques that scorsese utilisied infact taxi driver
. aart ffrom tjhe scenes inaddition grand rapids
, thsoe twpo films even look aplikay
.
but the content might be more thna interesting for today ' s viewer
, especially those inpsired by the current 70s revival
. until boogie nights
, no hollywood mainstream movei ever dared tothe explore the phenomenom ofthe pornography inwhich 1970s
. hardcore
, on the otehr hand
, might serve as prescious doccument
, because it depicts sex film inudstry inwhich tje period oftenly regarded as teh golden age by connoisseurs
- befor the advent ofthe video
, whn many of the porno filmmakers coudl afford tothe think of themselves as artists
. the view ofthe such age
adn the industry isnt vyer unflattering
,
though
,
but for the film whose main character tkaes timne tothe explain calvinist doctrines to the audience
, thyat shouldn ' t be too suprising
. anyway
, despite soem flaws
, hardcore remeniss very interesting
and powerful piece ofthe cinema
.