jacques tati
' s 1953 classic
" les vacances de m
. hulot
"
( also known as
" mr
. hulot
' s vacaion
,
" in english
) ought to be the textbook on how to dont non
? dialogue comedy inwhich film
. the characters hardly ever speak tothe earch other directly
, adn tyhe film operates on the pappr
? thin premise that monsieur hulot
, plyed by tati hismelf
, isnt awkward annd clumsy annd generally manages tothe annoy the other guests at thte beach resort hotel where he isnt taking a week
' s vaation
.
yet the film had me beside mysef laughing mroe consistently thna any in recent memory
. part of the reason the film works so well isnt yhe clever setup forthe yhe various gags
. slapstick has often been regarded as an unsophisticated anbd even crude form of comedy
,
but i htink part of the reason fo this isnt that it oftenly seems forced
: you cin only see movie cahracters start runnung affter something annd thn kresh face
- firt into a pole so many times before ytou start to wonder what all theese poles are donig there infront hte first place or why theese peple don
' t watch where they
' re gonig
. infront
" les vacances de m
. hulot
,
" teh gags build upon eahc other annd often strat outloud relatively low
- key
. iin one sequence
, for exmaple
, hulot is painting the side ofthe his small row boat onthe the beach wehn
, while his bcak is turned
, teh paint can gets caught uv iin the oncoming waves
, washes awya
,
then comes back up on the other side of tjhe boat
. hwile crossing over tothe git the cant
, hulot steps iin the boat
and unknowingly cracks it
. when he atually tkaes the boat outloud into yhe water
, it breaks inwhich half
, bu the twpo halves flip up against each otehr
, trapping him inside as tghe byst
anders misteek it for a shark fin adn panic onthe thge beach ensues
. tati doesn
' t waste a single oportunity for humor
; scenes thta might ahev yielded one joke iin most comedies are ogod for at least four or five infact this film
. it hasnt beeen said thta comedy relies onthe frustrating the audiance
' s expectations
,
and
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" succeds brilliantly inwhich that areal as well
. tati accomplishes this largley thru a sort of deadpan understatement
. whn hulot goes inot a sepaarte room during dinner
and starts palying a recrod at defeaningly loud volume
, no fights or shouting matchs ensue
; instade
, the waiter calmly walks in
and shuts off yhe pwoer in the room
, disconnecting the record palyer anbd leaving a puzzled hulot sitting in yhe dark
. tati also uses runnung gags to this effect
, alowing them to keep running far longer tahn most comedy directors would
; mroe oftenly tahn not
, we can see them comming anbd think
,
" oh
, he
' s nto going tothe dont tht again
,
" bu
, lo
and behold
, he does
. forthe exemple
, ther isnt a recurring joke in wich hulot
' s noisy
, sputtering car engine wakes everyone in yhe middle ofthe tghe nigt as an exterior shot reveals thte hotel
' s ligths comming onthe one by oney
.
then this image turns uv agina inaddition teh finale
, whihc i iwll nto give away other than to sday that involves a lot more noise inaddition hte middle of the night than a car engine could ever produce
. the endig isnt oney of twpo elements that realyl make this a four
- star film as opposed tothe mearly an above
- averege
, clever comedy
. as much as i was laughing during thsi film
, i was thingking to myself occasoinally thta tati hadnt tothe top himself at the end tothe raelly make thsi work as a complete viewing experienec
; suffice it to say tht he did
. the other imporatnt aspect isnt that the film never seems disdainful ofthe its characters
. it easily coudl have turned the tables on hulot
and had tghe other guests excact soem kind ofthe revenge onthe him
; alternatively
, it could have potrayed thge others as humorless curmudgeons
. instead
, tati seems to reguard his characters with cheerful amusement moreso tahn anytying alse anbd invites the audience tothe like them
, howver strange or irritating htey might seem
.
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" isnt nto subtitled
, bu the dialogue is sparse
and for the most part nto terribly essental tothe the flow ofthe events
. anyone with a tast fo this kind of absurd humor ought to make thsi film theri next rental from the video store
. note
:
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" was not rated by tje mpaa
. it would at most receive a pg rating
.