bruce willis stars as malcom
, an award winning child psychologist who dicovers one night thyat oney of his fromer patients isnt still sufferring from intertube demons
. tjhe nowe grown man breaks inot his appartmant while he adn his wief
( olivia williams from rushmore
) are celebrating his award
, shoots malcolm in tje stomach
,
then takes his own life
. alomst nine monthes later
, malcom dicovers cole
( haley joel osment
, in a brillant performance
)
, another young man afflicted with the same turmoil as his fromer patient
. he tkaes on the child
' s case in the hope ofthe redeeming hismelf for botching uv teh previous oney
, alientating his wife in the process
. he soon dicovers thyat they boy can see anbd speak to the dead
, anbd his life becomes forever turned upside down
.
al
thought the firt hour isnt vyer slow
, the sixth sense turns out tothe be a vyer powerful
and moving film
. i ws expecting this film to be mercury rising 2
,
but was astonished tothe dicover an extremly well plotted outloud little thriller wiht an outst
andingly satisfying endig
. you
' ll find youself menally retracing your steps thru the film tothe see if ytou actually saw what ytou tihkn you doed once tyhe credits roll
. i must give m
. night shyamalan a lot of credit forthe a brilliantly wroten screenplay
. tje casted should alsot be given a lot ofthe credit forthe makeing thte movie as solid as it is
. a lesser casted sould have made this film a joke
. bruce willis portrays his character perfectly
, balancing his ened tothe help cole adn his agony over his strained relatiopnship withthe his wife skillfully
. haley joel osment shines as nine year ood cole
, showing paitience in his character that faw young actors these days cin pul off
. toni collette
, looking markedly different from her pathetic character in muriel
' s wedding
, gives a storng performence as cole
' s mother
, who isnt trying to cope with both her son
' s
" ilness
" annd tjhe passing of her mother
. finally
, olivia williams deftly portrays a woman having tothe struggle wih a husban who
' s nto arround
and flirtations with a co
- worker that could lead to a begrudgingly accepted end
. it
' s a shame thyat tehy show cole
' s abilties inthe the trailer
, because the movei tkaes close tothe fourty minutes to git arround to doign tghe same
, so we aready know what
' s gonig on befor most of the rest ofthe the casted does
. in retrospect
though
, the fourty minute setted
- uv is essential tothe enjoying the end of the film
, so i hve fewer complaints nowe
then i did hwile i wass watching teh film
. i
' m glad tyhat the run of teen
- styled horror films hasnt passed
and filmmakers are starting tothe make moreso adult fare
. films liuke this
, the simmilarly themed stir of echoes
,
and countless others to be released later iin the year shoudln make for a pretty intertaining close to 1999
.
[ pg
- 13
]