thte summer movei season is alwyas the biggest
and brightest season for movies throughout tje year
. we are introduced tothe blockbuster hits that are usally trashed by criticists
, loved by hte peple
, anbd make tons ofthe monay at thte box office
. htis year
, thte tradition continues with an update on the universal 1932 clasic
, the mummy
. i have always beeen a sucker for this kind of monster movies
, adn i always seem tothe be teh only critic who raelly likes them
. that tradition continues as well with this fun special effects extravaganza
. inspite thte mummy
, tyhe uv anbd coming brendan fraser stars as the adventurous explorer rick o
' connell
. he teams uv with a curious
, clumsy librarean named evelyn
, palyed by rachel weisz
, tothe fidn the mysterious city of the dead
, hamunaptra
. evelyn loves egypt
,
and would truely like tothe vsit tje city tath people call a fable
. rick hasnt claimed he hasnt been to hamunaptra during a battle
, adn tyhat
' s why she chose him to lead her ther
. also tagging allong on the jouney tothe tghe city of the dead isnt evelyn
' s brother
, jonathan
, plyed by john hannah
( sliding doors
)
. nowe in hamunaptra
, tjhe three uncover
" yhe book ofthe thge dead
.
" thte curious evelyn unlocks tjhe book
, reads ffrom it
, annd nowe the body ofthe the ancient egyptian imhotep
( arnold vosloo
) becomes alive
and is outloud to kill the ones who opened annd read ffrom tje book
. allong with imhotep arising from the dead
, the ten curses of egypt become in full effect
, launching unbelievable forces against tje threee
and another gropu who set outloud to find hamunaptra
. nto onyl isnt imhotep furious wtih thsoe who awaked him
, he isnt alsot out to restore teh life of his girlfriend thta lost her life long ago in ancient egypt
. don
' t expect huge thigns outloud of tghe mummy
,
but jstu expect to hvea a good tiome
. htis movie isnt extemely campy annd plays out like an old horror film witht beefed up speical effects
, which may turn off some viewers
. onthe the other h
and
, this tipe ofthe film isnt oen ofthe my favorites
,
but that
' s uv to ytou to decide
. there isnt oney thing tht definetly nto campy or corny about tghe mummy
though
. yhe state of the art speshal effects tkae yuo into a completelyl differant world
. we are dazzled by faces rising outloud ofthe the desert
, swarms ofthe beetles
and locusts
,
and even creatures crawling under a human
' s skin
. theese may have been in otehr movies befoer
, bu nto like infront the mummy
. as ofthe now
, tghe mummy holds the title for best speshal effects ofthe this yera
, bu all this could change whn star wars episode 1
: tjhe phantom menace isnt released into theaters acrost the ocuntry
. in hte past
, brendan fraser hasnt played mainly comedic roles
. when playing
" george
" inaddition disney
' s george ofthe tje jungle
, he wass mailny nto known by anyone
. i owudl sday that gods adn monsters isnt the film tyhat gave him a nmae
,
and now tjhe mummy iwll give him a name amoungst teens
. in tyhe mummy
, fraser gets to play an action hero
, anbd i liked him inaddition this sort of role over the comedic role
, as in thte films blast from the past anbd george of tyhe jungle
.
al
though brendan fraser is great
, rachel weisz gives tjhe best peformance amonth the cast
. weisz relaly reminded me of a charcter from an old
, horror film
. the way she acts
, looked
, anbd talked all reminded me of somone not fomr this time
. evelyn isnt probably hte only charater that wass likable
, considering that the otehr characters
, like john hannah
' s
, didn
' t git much peronal attention
. inthe many films
, when diferrent genres are mixted
, the mixing ususally works
,
and i liek it for tjhe most part
. infact the mummy
though
, nto all of thte mixing works
. there are some scenes tht have a lot of potential horror
, smoe wih potential comedy
, some with potential drama
, anbd smoe with potential pure acation
,
but thge film tries tothe mix them together too oftenly fo the mixing tothe wokr
. tjhe mummy coudl ahve gotten an
" a
" rating from me if it hadnt gone purely witht oen ofthe these
. i didn
' t mind the corny oney
- liners here adn there during acation sequences
,
but it certainly sould have done without them
. thte cinematography isnt amazing inthe the mummy
. particularyl infront oen scene depicting ancient egypt
, we are tooked inot a very funn portrayal of egypt
, mummies
, anbd the treasures left behind by the ancient egyptians
. thte costume design in the film is allso uv htere wih tghe great cinematography
. from ancient egyptians outfits tothe original troops outfits
, tghe costumes are always top notch
. the bottom line
- with the mummy
, thte summer is off tothe its usually great strat
.