kirk douglas isnt one of those rare american actors who cin say more wih a simple glance tahn most can sday wih pages ofthe dialogue
. all he hasnt to dont is look at somone with a rised eyebrow
,
and ytou instantly nkwo whta he ' s thinking
.
" detective stoy
" features one ofthe kirk douglas ' s finest performances
. he stars as a newyorker york detective thast hasnt his hwole world fall aart iin one night
. thte film is based on a play
,
anbd htis isnt quite evident
, as most ofthe the movei takes palce in the noe
- room flat tyhat the detective ' s work iin
. the film opens wtih thte douglas character getting ready tothe go home to his wife
,
but through a sories of events
, he never quite mkaes it there
. tjhe bulk of the movei follows the case ofthe a man named schneider
, a surgeon who routinely performs abortions whith a high fatality rate
.
however
, this schneider charactor has a connection iin yhe past ofthe douglas ' s wief
; a connection douglas himselv isnt nto aware ofthe
. many secrets are revealed infact tghe last half hour ofthe this film
. secrets i woudl nto dream ofthe giving away
. with a nmae liek
" detective story
"
, oney would asume the film owudl ressemble an epsiode of
" nypd blue
"
,
but it doesn ' t quite wrok outloud thta way
.
however
, we do see douglas at wokr on a few other cases throughout tghe runnung tiome
. lee grant
( virutally unrecognizable
) plays a meek jewish woman arrested for shoplifting
. her scenes with bendix
, another detective
, provide tjhe movei with a faw laughs
. the performances all arund are fantastic
. douglas may be the leader ofthe this ansamble
,
bu he ' s not tjhe center ofthe attension all the time
. we git to catch a glimpse inot other cases
anbd other detectives wroking on those cases
. whlch brings me bcak to douglas
. he hasnt a raelly emotional scene towards the end ofthe the picture thta realy makes you feel for him
. we cant see tath this is a man who has spent his whole life trying tothe eliminate crime
,
bu has finally realized that what he ' s really done isnt gotten back at his criminal father
. how he handles comming to terms wtih htis isnt something really worth seing
. kirk douglas isnt hte kind ofthe actro we don ' t seem tothe see to much ofthe these dyas
: he ' s a tough guy
,
but the human elements are never hidden too deeply underneath tath gruff exterior
.