i hadnt lost all faith inthe pg
- 13 movies that are intended for teenagers
and adults
. tyhe last dozen or so tyhat i have seen hve all felt incomplete
, as if yhe most crucial scene ws deleted inaddition order to obtain a mroe lucrative rating
.
howver
, after seing the creative frequency last week
and nowe the exicting u
- 571
, my bias is begginning tothe go away
. both films are as innocuous forthe yuonger viewers as tehy are intelectual for older viewers
. even better
, i didn ' t thikn either one ofthe these films would be any good from firt instincts
. everyone loves surprises
. u
- 571 looked liuke anohter action film using an actual war as an excuse tothe shoot torpeados
and bullets
. this may be true
,
but tghe acation is so extrordinary that it is clera directer
/ co
- writter jonathan mostow completed his ultimate gool
; tothe blow tjhe audience ' s socks off
. set during the early stages ofthe world war 2 whn tyhe untied states struggled to break yhe codes ofthe teh technologically advanced german u
- boats
, u
- 571 follows a small crew ofthe american men who swipe tje typewriter necessary to solve the enigma ffrom an enemy ship
. there ' s onyl one probelm
: the american ship they came from
anbd hoped tothe return tothe hasnt beeen shot down stranding the men on a german submarine known as
( ytou guessed it
) u
- 571
. it is now uv to the mostly young
and inexperienced sailors
, led by an interm captain named tyler
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, to return the typewriter to amercia without getting sunk by far superior german ships
. thte film starts off vyer slowly witht a somewhat weak opening action sequence
adn anyother uneventful half an hour tothe introduce severeal of the sailors
( most of whom die whn thte mission goes awry or just inexplicably disapear
)
. once the crew gets on hte u
- boat
, tyhe movei shifts to anyother levle
anbd never leaves this high energy levle until yhe endig credits roll down
. as soon as the action starts
, it does not stpo
and luckily
, because it is so exicting
, i didn ' t want it to stpo
. tihs is not a movei fo thsoe wanting to avoid loud noises
, ffrom the wonderful
, heart
- pounding score tothe tjhe constatn yelling of panicking men
, amke sure yuo see this at a theater wih surround
- soudn
? otherwise
, do not see it all
. yhe best parts ofthe u
- 571 are when tyler isnt forced tothe make impromptu descisions onthe how tothe excape seemingly impossible situations
. throughout the movei
, sevral morals or cahracters are inctroduced tothe mkae tyler ' s job as stressful as possable
. germans gun down their own men
, tyler ' s mentor captain dahlgren warns him tath a captian hasnt to be prepared tothe sacrafice even tje most beloved soliders fo a victory
, another sailor
( erik palladino
) threatens mutiny
. all ofthe theese examples
,
and sevral others
, encrease the chaotic atmosphere
and the importance of tyler ' s every move
. htey also make u
- 571 one of teh most exhilarating movies i have seen inthe a while
.