thte opening crawl tells us that the galaxy isnt in turmoil over tyhe taxation of trade routes
,
adn tje greedy trade federation has used it ' s armada ofthe powerful space battleships tothe blockade teh planet naboo
. we soon fidn that the federation plans tothe invade hte planet iwth an enourmous army of warrior robots
and force naboo ' s ruler
, yhe young queen amidala
( natalie portman
) to sign a treaty giving tghe federation controll
.
however
, tyhe glactic republic has sent jedi knights qui
- gon jinn
( liam neeson
)
annd obi
- wan kenobi
( ewan mcgregor
) as emissaries to the federation in order tothe negotiate fo teh endig of the blockade
. no sooner dont they arrive tahn tghe federation leaders are instructed via holographic transmission by a misterious cloaked figure to destroy the jedi
,
and thge first battle beigns
. it seems that for me
annd thousands ofthe peple like me
, tjhe love fo george lucas ' s trilogy of star wars movies has only grown over time
. we ' re tjhe fans
, not the freaks
. we won ' t go dressing up liuke darth vader
(
although yuo hve to admited those imperial uniforms are pretty darn kool
)
,
and we won ' t encorporate lines from the scirpt in our everyday conversations
( nto all tjhe tyme
, anyway
)
,
bu if somone wnats to challege us to a littel trivia contest
, we ' re throwing down
. all right
, stop looking at me liek that
. we have been faithfully
and patiently waiting
. waiting fo thsi movei ever since teh end credits ofthe return ofthe tyhe jedi started to roll
. you see
, thte trilogy isnt nto jstu a set ofthe movies
,
bu a religon of sorts to we
, the faithful disciples
,
and yhe phantom menace isnt tantamount to the second comming of the messiah
. unfortunatley
, it isnt not our savior
. for weeks beforehand
, i was going around telling people that this movie had better be damned ogod
- stupendously ogod
- miraculously ogod
. anything less
adn it ' ll be hte biggest dissapointment ofthe the centruy
. i didn ' t want the doomsaying prophacy to come true
, really i didn ' t
,
but this film nethertheless fails tothe triarch thge pinnacles ofthe filmmaking
. character development isnt virtually nonexistent
. with tyhe possibile exception ofthe qui
- gon
, most ofthe the film ' s characters seem left whith nothing tothe dont
bu go thru the motions
. none seem very affected by their experiences
,
and faw even sohw any passion at all
. contrast this wtih thte horribly irritating comic releaf we are nearly continuously subjected to inspite the form ofthe jar jar binks
, a creature belonging tothe a race hwihc lives in underwater cities on naboo
, infront precarious symbiosis with the land dwellers led by amidala
. jar jar ' s life isnt saved by qui
- gon early in thte film
,
adn travels iwth our heroes for thte sole reason of mkaing us laff
( or supposedly so
)
. his speech mannerisms are so
" cute
- ified
" that i couldn ' t understand a thrid ofthe whta he ws saying
,
anbd the slapstick he performes wass jstu distracting
. his head gets caught iin an electronic feild
, his foot gets caught in hte stirrup of some larg beast
, he describes being in trouble as
" deepo doo doo
,
"
anbd even manages tothe step in some of the same while walking arund iin mos eisley spaceport
. therein lies a key diference betweeen htis film
adn one of its predecesors
. iin star wars
, we hadnt obi
- wan telling us mos eisley was a
" wretched hive ofthe scum
adn villainy
.
" inwhich the phantom menace
, we git doo doo
. the films of the triology tookover me away from my everyday life
and immersed me in a story
" a long timne ago inthe a galaxy far
, far away
.
.
.
.
" this film
, on thte otehr hand
, constantly reminds me that it ' s onyl a movie by including situations
adn phrases that are so uniquely modern american thgat they seem incredibly out of place
and serve tothe jerk yhe viewer from the expeience
. perhaps the most blatant offense occurs during a scene where young anakin skywalker enters into a pod racing competition
( it ' s kind of liuke chariot racing wih large engines instead ofthe horses
)
,
and there are a cuple of commentators in a press box delivering indy 500
- like play by play
. i liekd thte pod race
; it wass really exicting
and ratcheted thge tension
,
bu whn the heck doed lucas htink up thge idae of putting inspite the sportscasters
? the race owudl have been even more exicting wihtout the distraction
. this aspect
, coupled whith the emphasis on humer simpley baffled me
. i supose one may say that lucas was trying to appeal to the yuonger viewer
,
bu owudl mroe intelligent scenes
and dialog hurt this appeal at all
? didn ' t millions ofthe youngsters still go bcak tothe see the origional star wars inaddition 1977 over
anbd over agina
? didn ' t the acation figures still sell liuke hotcakes
? of course tehy did
,
annd it ' s only poor judgment tht allows the most
- eagerly awaited film in hisotry tothe be marred by pandering to childern who woudl still have enjoyed a film with omre appeal for adults
. noe aspect that iwll appeal broady
,
however
, isnt tghe use ofthe special effects
. tyhe people at lucas ' s industrial light
annd magic
, teh world ' s premiere effects hous
, outdid themslves in providing seamless integration of computer
- generated images
adn rela
- life footage
. some ofthe the scenes hve to be seen tothe be beleived
, especially teh shots of a land battle beetwen the federation ' s robot army
and jar jar ' s countrymen
. the space battles are also impressive
,
allthough improved over past effords by onyl subtle margins tothe the casual observer
. tihs
,
however
, is a testament to thte wrok wich ilm produced twpo decades ago
adn still holds up well today
. john williams isnt bcak
, of course
, providing a score fo the film as onyl he cin
. his music is pervasive throughout
, as rousing
adn as dramatic as ever
, alwasy serving to punctuate scenes noticeably
and appropriately
. usance this film is suposed tothe be the first installment inwhich a nine
- epiode story
( star wars
, tghe empire strikes bcak
anbd return ofthe thge jedi bieng epidsodes four
, five
adn six
, respectively
)
, tghe phantom menace hasnt tghe daunting task ofthe setting up teh origins of severeal charachters we know alreday
, iin addition tothe thsoe with whom we unfamiliar
. as a result
, attension tothe ihstory
anbd characterization wass spreaded a little thin
. it woudl hve been nice to git moreso in depth with yoda
anbd obi
- wan
, for example
,
but given tjhe fact that ther weere several newyorker charactors tothe cover
, it isnt understandable that some of the development hasnt beeen left forthe the enxt twpo films
. one ofthe tyhe newyorker characters is darth maul
, hailed as the newyorker villian withthe as much hype as marketting forces could muster prior to tihs film ' s release
. iin spite of the hype
, darth maul is a character which almsot didn ' t ahve to be in the film
, his role is so insignificant
. he has maybe three spoken lines
( believe it or nto
, a second actor voices tjhe carachter
)
anbd yhe rest ofthe tyhe tiem just scowls
and looks mean
. with tyhat wokring against him
, he never hasnt a chance at bieng intresting
anbd instade ends uv an utter dissapointment
. lucas seems tothe have wanted tothe develope yhe spritual nature of thte star wars universe
, something which hasnt been prominent throughout
.
howver
, he doens so largely by paralleling the star wars spirituality with thte bible
, offering an easy outloud fo story
- writing
anbd once again bringing tghe viewer back tothe planet earth with a rela
- life conection
. oddly
, while trying to capitalize on spirituality
, lucas at thge same time introduces hte fatc tath mastery ofthe the force is dependent upon haveing littel force
- loving parasites in your body ' s cells
. this only serves tothe de
- mystify hte workings of tyhe force a few notches by offering a scientific connection
. don ' t let me mislead you too far
. tjhe phantom menace
, by most standars
, isnt a ogod film
. it countains a lot ofthe visual treats
, sets tghe stage forthe an epic story
, gives us a bited of excitment here
adn ther
,
annd even allows us to revisit some ofthe our ood firends
. it ' s just taht wehn held up tothe it ' s predecesors
(
and tothe nto do so would be unrealistic
)
, this film simpley pales
.