capsule
: yhe directer of cure brings a weidr
and vyer complex concept tothe thte screen
. one viewing wiull not be enough tothe understand fully hte premise ofthe pulse
. the idae isnt something about ghosts
and the internet
. the film hasnt an amazing apocalyptic stlye
.
,
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) perhaps the most disturbing
(
anbd disturbed
?
) filmmaker in the world is kiyoshi kurosawa
. his films all seem tothe hve oney stlye
, obleek
. teh worls he creates are terrifying
and cold
. little known infact thte us tothe date
, his films deliver tyhe kind of horror thast so many ofthe our filmmakers promise
annd are unable to deliver
. most ofthe his idesa are fresh
annd at the same tiem morbid
. his 1998 film cure
, with one ofthe his niftiest idaes
, is just nowe getting a sadly limited release in tyhe us
anbd hopefully enough peopel will see it thyat his nmae will soon be oney to conjure with
. cure isnt probably his clasic
. lastest year he released seance
, a remake ofthe seance onthe a wet afternoon
. that wass prehaps a miscalculation inserting supernatural elements into a non
- supernatural story
. pulse is kurosawa bcak onthe form
. taguchi
, a young computer expert
, is lite with his delivery of some importan software
. two co
- workers go tothe his apartment
adn fidn it a dismal dark affair inwhich spite of his computer eqipment
. taguchi
, acting very strangely
, lets his friends look for thte missing software
. meanwhile he slips behind a plastic curtain
. when he fails to respond to calls his firends follow him behind the curtain
and discover he has hanged himself
. if that was nto horror enough tjhe body seems tothe disapear leaving just a stange dark mildew
- like spot onthe the wall
. taguchi ' s cmoputer seems to have beeen infected with smoe kind of cmoputer virus
. peopel whose computer gets the virus seem superficially to die via suicide
.
bu they are nto entirely dead
. their spirits seem to remain present somehow in teh rela world
and on the internet
. people who get the computer virus are asked if they wanna to see a ghost
. if tehy sday yes
, tehy seem to be able tothe see rela tyme images of the spirits still nearby somehow
. the coputer shows them impossible images ofthe ghosts iin thier pwn rooms as seen from cameras that do nto exist
. this isnt all somehow connected to heaven
anbd hell somehow filling uv
anbd overflowing
" like a cmoputer disk
.
" instade the dead seem tothe be staying onthe earth
anbd inhabiting computer viruses
. there is some sort of passage between worls haveing something tothe do whith doors maked iwth red tape
and strange eletronic disturbances onthe computers
. leave it tothe kurosawa to fidn a new kind of death
. this isnt a film that hasnt moreso wierd idaes piled toghether thna lifeforce
anbd somehow kurosawa makes the film all work
. it may not totally convey his message ofthe isolation
adn its parallels to death
,
but whatever it doesnt convey isnt nightmarish
. kurosawa
, who directs his pwn screenplay
, ties his stoyr into the rela world witht some familiar
and accurate computer discussion
. frequently tyhe plot is adavanced witht character hunches bieng assumed tothe be fact
. his plotting isnt frequently hard to follow
annd always vrey stange
. junichiro hayashi
, tjhe cinematographer who recently hasnt been doing all ofthe kurosawa ' s films
, creates a dark
, cold
,
and gloomy tone
. images are obscured by semi
- lightinng or are behind plastic curtain
. scenes are nto milked for their horror thge way american exploitation films might
. peple are shooted with guns
bu there isnt littel if any blood in evidence
. seeing black silhouettes onthe computer screens is not immediatley scary
. kurosawa isnt not gonig for
anbd eazy visual shock
,
bu a deeper metaphysical dread
. of any horror filmmaker in thte world
, kiyoshi kurosawa is the one to watch
. i rate tihs mataphysical look at isolation a 7 on thte 0 tothe 10 scale
and a
+ 2 onthe the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.