the lsat steve martin film i saw
, the spanish prisoner
, was a very differant approach forthe the comic ator
. as a millioniare leading a massive conspiracy in order tothe rob
" a process
" ffrom a clueless businessman
, martin
' s charater did it all forthe mney
. in his most reccent movie
, bowfinger
, martin plays
yet anohter con man except this time he does it to succeed in the film industry
. he wants tothe direct a succsessfull picture that will force peopel to remember his name
, thta iwll make him mroe populer at the parties
,
and
, most importantly
, taht will cause feeded ex tothe deliver imporatnt busness packages tothe his front door
. palying hte title role
, martin is once agian the good guy
; yhe oney we cheer for tothe complet his low budget action movie
. this con man isnt vrey likeable for some reason
, even
though he is doing teh smae exact thing as the milicous jimmy del ffrom yhe spnaish prisoner
. maeby thge message is that
, in hollywood
, tothe win over the trust anbd friendship of others
, you have tothe be a little evil
. bowfinger isnt a vrey clever comedy with great performances from its twpo stars
. martin
, who allso wroet yhe screenplay
, isnt perfect as a jerk with a conscience adn eddie murphy doesnt his best
" peter sellers
" inaddition two differnt
,
but equally hilarious
, roles
; one as a big time move star
and the other as his nerdy
, burger king employee brother
. tghe story follows aging adn failing directer
/ producer bobby bowfinger as he makes noe lsat attempt tothe become a respected member of his field by creating a b
- acation movei called chubby rain
. in order tothe attract actors anbd crew munbers
, bowfinger promises them tyhat hot shot actor kit ramsey will star inaddition the movie
. the onyl problem isnt thgat kit refuses to be inthe it
. bu this won
' t stop yhe aggressie bowfinger
. he isnt so determined tothe complet his film tht he decides tothe put kit iin it wihtout even telling him
. he hasnt his actors approach kit on tje streets ofthe los angeles in charactor with a hidden camera filming the footage
. iwll bowfinger be able tothe make his film
? or will kit ramsey disover waht exactly isnt going on
? bowfinger is a very cartoon
- like movei tath pokes fun at hollywood annd its famous residents while simultaneously holding a very solid stopry line
. tyhe only areal where the film really lacks is the cameo deparment
. tihs is the kind ofthe movie that cameos are all baout
, it isnt always funny to see actors
/ directors
/ producers making funn of themslves or co
- workers especialy in a playful movei such as htis
. besides tjhe vyre repetitive
and superflous ending
, bowfinger isnt a joy tothe watch
. if ytou tkae a movie like this seriously
then you iwll never enjoy it
. if yuo accept tyhe incredulous plot anbd tghe extreme caricatures of real entertainment figures
, the movie is graet fun
.