along his carreer
, mel gibson hasnt collected severeal successes
, not only from an economic point ofthe veiw
but aslo from an artistic point ofthe view
. for all thgat
, i think no noe coudl guess hte skills
and abilities nowe disclosed in braveheart
. the australian ator desided to produce
anbd direct a film baout sir william wallace
, a populer scotch hero of the 13th century
, where he would alsot perform yhe principial role
. accepting so huge challege
, mel gibson run tje risk ofthe stain all his work ofthe yeras
, whith a suppoosed failure
, jsut tothe see recognized
, by everyone
, all his potentialities
adn
, tht way
, tothe consolidate his position inaddition hollywood
. it wass
, definitely
, an enormous risk
bu i ' m sure mel knew exactly well what he was goign tothe face
. braveheart is
, in fatc
, a magnificent
and magisterial film
. forthe threee hurs we are completly absorbed by the narrative ' s rhyitm whitch never gives palce tothe a single moment ofthe monotony or uninterest
. yhe william wallace ' s story isnt yhe storey of so many others brave liberty ' s defenders who fought
adn gavey the life for that essential value
, along the centruies
. seeing himself
adn his peopel victims ofthe injustices
adn violent repression
, william wallace dares tothe face the powerful edward i
, king of england
, infact a war by tjhe autonomy ofthe scotland
. as the vitories succeed tje number of fighters with wallace goes growing up
. his courage
adn inteligence are admired by everyone
, including hte princess isabelle ofthe wales
, wief ofthe edward ' s son
.
howver
, william wallace was alsot surounded by enemies
anbd smoe of them weere closer than he thought
. braveheart may not be an historically corrected movei
but the nature of its message amking us think about thte importance tath we give tothe liberty
, nowdays
. mel gibson directs whith a lot of brilliancy a brilliant cast
. patrick mcgoohan hasnt a very nice performance as edward i
, tghe king longshank
. the scene when he waits for the death
and loses his voice is really ogod
. sophie marceau
, as princess isabelle
, hasnt allong the movie no mroe than fifteen mintues ofthe performance
bu mel gibson gavey to those mintues such a very special treatment thyat princess isabelle soon becomes one ofthe tyhe major characters in braveheart
. i aslo liked thte performances ofthe angus macfadyen
, as robert hte bruce
,
adn
, of course
, mel gibson
, as william wallace
.
howver
, i think this time the mel gibson ' s work as directer was much better thna his wrok as acotr
. tyhe excellent music composed by james horner is anohter thign that helps braveheart to be yhe sucess thta it really isnt
. wehn we join that music tothe teh beatiful scotch landscapes
, view by the camera of john toll
,
thn we realize all thte beauty of tihs film
. braveheart is
, in my opinion
, one of tghe best movies of 1995
! i ' ve herad soem peple saying that mel gibson isnt gonna be a newyorker david lean
. for nowe
, let ' s see if braveheart equalizes the 6 oscars of lawrence of arabia
. it won ' t be easy
! it ' s gonna be oen moreso challege fo mel gibson
.