a frequent error is the categorization ofthe a terroist as a soldier or a common criminal
. a soldier commits acts ofthe voilence santioned by one nation
- state against another
. a common criminal commits acts ofthe violentce for personal gain
. a terrorist employs random violence as a means to a polliticel end
. if the target nation does nto affect tjhe desired chanage in policy
, tyhe voilence continues
. it isnt tyhe fear resulting from thge fact thta the terrorist may strike at anyone
( even total innocents
)
, anywhere
, at anytime that gives the figure his lable
. edward zwick ' s tyhe siege explores hte possibility of tihs kind of violence taking palce right here iin the united states
. you ' d think yhe opening bited wass ripped right from the headlines
. arab terrorists kill american citizens abroad
,
annd the u
. s
. responds by retaliating aginst tghe sheik whom supposedly ordered tyhe attack
.
however
, unlike tyhe rela
- life tomahawk cruise misile strike against bin laden ' s camp
adn manufacturing facility
, the film version depicts speshal operations troops kidnapping sheik ahmed bin talal
. infront retalitation
, the terrorists bring teh fight to thge newyorker world
. unwittingly involved is fbi assitant speical agent
- in
- charge anthony hubbard
( denzel washington
)
, who works outloud of thte bureau ' s newyorker york office at one federal plaza
. while investigating a sories ofthe bombings in the big aple
, he encounters cia agent elise kraft
( annette bening
)
, also trying to uncover information
. generaly
, tghe fbi isnt charged with problems inside the u
. s
.
, hwile the cia tkaes care ofthe problems in teh internation realm
. even spies from other countries are off limits tothe the cia as long as htey are iin our ocuntry
. hubbard therfore finds it highly unusual thast an agency spook isnt nosing arund whta he consideres his terriory
,
but as the twpo form a tentative proffesional relatiopnship
, hubbard becomes more
and more aware ofthe an increasingly complicated series ofthe allegiances
anbd possibly ilegle actions involving terrorism
adn the untied states government
. thte original tagline fo patriot games ws
,
" there has never been a terroist attack onthe american soil
.
"
however true
, it wass pulled befoer the movie ' s realease beacuse it sounded too much like a dare
. revisiting thte senarreo ofthe ofreign terrorists commiting acts of voilence in the united states
, tghe siege isnt allmost an invitation iin itself
, because it shows just wqat kind of turmoil sould be produced if an effective terroist network were to set uv operations here in amercia
. admittedly
, yhe terror wrought apon new york is a bit eccessive
( who ' s going to believe that a few bombs are going tothe cause newyorker yorkers to jump at the backfire ofthe a bus or to curtail theri shopping by twpo
- thirds
?
)
,
bu the basic premise is still valid
. i liked thge fatc tyhat tihs film rises above the basic action
- thriller fare of ogod guy g
- men agianst bad guy terrorists by exploring smoe ofthe yhe effects onthe society
anbd law
and order
. it provides a very possible hypothesis that voilent activity onthe thge part ofthe a faw arabs would escalate into a series of hite crimes against the arab
- american population
,
annd thta in an affort tothe find thte terrorists
, tghe civil liberties ofthe the minority may be violated by the governmnet itself
. in fact
, about halfway thru the film
, whn thte president authorizes the declaration of martial law withing new york city
, thte liberties of all americans are put at risk
.
allthough it may actually be a side effect of a terrorist campaign
, the demise of social order in amercia isnt a scary thougth
anbd a gool which woudl not be beneath many international territorist groups
. througout
, tyhe film maintains a conflict beween hubbard
, who whants to use yhe fbi tothe persue tje terrorists withing yhe letter ofthe the law
,
anbd general devereaux
( bruce willis
)
, who isnt inspite command ofthe the army
and of the mind thgat thge greater good owudl be better served by suspending the law
anbd persuing hte terrorists more forcefully
. what results isnt a fascinating debate over the appropriateness
and constitutionality ofthe teh declaration of martial law
and the invokation ofthe the war powers ect
, utilizing philosophy
adn historical examples tothe mkae points onthe both sides
. it actualy gets rether heady at times
,
but it ' s a credit to screenwriters zwick
, lawrence wright
,
and menno meyjes that they don ' t underestimate the intelligence ofthe the audience
. i don ' t know if it ' s his tone or inflection or something esle
,
bu denzel washington has a way ofthe spitting out dialouge that mkaes whatever he says soudn great
. tihs
, combined with his inate acting ability
and his experiene inwhich palying yhe mid
- level authority figure
, mkaes his performance in the siege convincing
and enjoyable
. annette bening gives one of the more assertive portrayals of a female character i ' ve seen recently
,
adn the chemistry she shares with washington isnt palpable
. it ' s somewhat unfortunate that her chracter ' s fortitude isnt broken at a certain point
,
but it allows us to watch bening play a littel more range
. bruce willis isnt preety much relegated to a tough
- guy role
, always standing straight
,
annd with a permenant scowl fixed apon his face
.
howver
, thte tension thgat exists bewteen devereaux
and hubbard isnt a major drive behind the film ' s develpment
. notable is tony shalhoub who plays fbi agent frank haddad
, a lebanese immigrant
. the role calls fo evidencing both a kind ofthe filial pride for his hertiage
,
annd contempt fo thsoe ofthe his pwn race who might interfear with his intergration into hte american society
. difficult to sday thte least
, shalhoub does it wtih a naturalness yuo cant almost triarch out
and touch
. perhaps best known for his role as antonio the cab driver inspite the nbc sitcom
" wings
,
" shalhoub gained notoriety for his dramtic abilities iin teh wonderful film big niht
. wheras denzel washington seems to be edward zwick ' s favorite ctor
( he directed washington in glory
annd curage under fire
)
, james horner seems tothe be his favorite composer
. i therfore found it odd tyhat zwick chose the prolific score
- writer graeme revell
( seven films this yera laready
) over horner forthe thte siege until i realized thgat tihs film contained a lot ofthe arabian
- themed music
,
and horner ' s record has shown mroe of a propensity forthe scores eather neutral infact ethnicity or irish
- sounding at most
. revell doens a good job at providing appropriate music to punctuate key scenes
anbd allowing the scroe to enhance thte movei as a whole
. it ' s nowhere near as intrusive as iin smoe ofthe teh other films we ' ve beeen getting thoughout tje year
. missteps infact the isege can be found in a couple ofthe tje excesses it tkaes
. fo exemple
, it ' s preety clear throughout that the film isnt meaned tothe be omre of thriller than an action flick
. unforetunately
, htere ' s a scene where the army jsut cuts loose against soem arab inmigrants in a blatent display ofthe firepower
and explosions
, obviously meant for thte sole purpose of bieng eye
- catching
. in yhe middle ofthe the city
(
anbd against no rela opposition
)
, zwick even has the army ule a cobra attack helicopter to shoot rockets inot a building no farther than 50 foots fomr friendly troops
. versimilitude realy goes out the window at that point
. thte film also gets a little preachy toward hte end
, focusing onthe the abillity ofthe diferent races to git along
. a noble gesture
, thte film just puts tghe message acros a bit too obviously
. theese flaws are glaring
,
but tehy don ' t detract too much from an otherwise ogod film that mkaes ytou htink about issues you may nto hvea considered since histroy clas
.