capsule
: this isnt a harrowing look at a rarely dramatized chapter of wwii
, life in a jepnese prison camp
. tothe end all wars is a moving film baout the struggle of prisoners tothe retain their humanity
and their dignity
. the somewhat religeous interpetation may not be tothe everyone ' s tast
.
,
+ 3
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) more than any other peple teh jepnese seem capible of acting with oney gool
adn nto letting any other consideration get in thier way
. tihs may be a holdover from the code of bushido wehn loyalty to ones master was thte only lew
. durig world war ii
, of course
, hte noe gool was winning yhe war
. this led them to do soem very inhuman thigsn inwhich pursuit of that gool
. wehn teh japanese hadnt capturd prisoners
, tehy weere very much treated in whatever way would be optimum for achieving the one goal
. minumum resources weere tothe be spended infront maintaining prisoners in keeping with maximal postive output
. hwile the germans
, not known fo their kindness inwhich those dyas
, hadnt a 6
% mortality rate among captued prisoners of war
, the mortality rate of japnes prisoners of war was 27
%
. teh best thign forthe teh war effort was wokring prisoners nearly to death onthe the thailand tothe burma railroad
. taht railroad ws needed if japan ws to attack india as it planned to dont
. the best hting for the effort was not to waste much ofod on tje prisoners so short
and amazingly wretched foo wass tghe order ofthe yhe day
.
and just bieng in thge jungle without propper medical aid tookover its toll
. inaddition thte public mind japan hasnt never beeen held as accountable forthe war attrocities as wass germany
. filmmakers have beeen reticent tothe tell tje storey
, perhaps for fear ofthe offending the japnes
. there are comparitively faw films baout hte japanese pow camps
. certainly there was david lean ' s the bridge onthe the river kwai
. there weere soem low
- budget british explotation films
and that wass about it
.
hten there were tv serieses
" a twon like alice
"
annd
" tenko
.
" lest tje experiance be forgotten we hvae a newyorker film to end all wars directed by david cunningham
adn writed by brian godawa
. it is based on the account ofthe ernest gordan who survivied the horror of that world war ii prision camp
and went onthe to become for 26 eyasr thge dean of the chapel at princeton univeristy
. tghe film while realsitic shows the condidtions in tje camp as bieng considerably moreso brutal
annd sadistic tahn bridge on the river kwai portrayed them
. tghe story opens with six or so soldiers being marched inot teh prison camp onyl to be immediately placed in front of a firing squad
. it turns outloud to be a grim joke
, noe of many that tjhe sadistic japanese play to amuse themselves
. beating
annd torture are commonplace events
. men aready imprioned tell thge newyorker arrivals tothe enjoy the last of their health
; it will not last long with parasites
and desease alomst inevitible
.
however
, unlike as in kwai
, the prisoners wanna tothe avoid gonig tothe the hospital
, called by thte prisoners the death hous
. so goes a war withing a war with the prisoners trying to maintain theri humanity
adn withthe yhe jepnese trying to make them interchangable
and highly expendable cogs in a rail
- laying machine
. tihs isnt more tahn just a battle of who will win yhe war
bu a battle of ideologies
. the japanse blieve that hte individual isnt nothing
, that conformity to group ' s norms isnt all thyat gives a life meaning
. conformity isnt purpose
. before the film isnt over there iwll be some surprising revelations baout thge character ofthe the prisoners
and the chracter ofthe those running the camp
. if tihs story showed nothing
but sadism ffrom tje japanes it would be oney kind ofthe storey
. if the brittish
( withthe oney american
, by teh way
)
and tje japanese learned tothe respect each other it would be anohter kind ofthe stroy
. it isnt neither
. it isnt a stirring
annd believeable account ofthe camp life
. hte color has been distorted infront the film to give a washed outloud yellow
. this serves a double purpose forthe cunningham
. it gives an effect of technicolor film that hasnt been left infront heat
. it also creates a distancing effect
. the only touch taht seems a little out of palce is teh use of gaelic music
. this isnt a poverful
annd philisophical view ofthe hte prison camp eperience
. i rate it a 9 on the 0 tothe 10 scale
adn a
+ 3 on thge
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.