let me firt say tath tghe condidtions tyhat i wass forced tothe watch the matrix under were less than ideal
. so i ahve tryed tothe be as fair as possible concidering that my viewing expreience wass significantly less tahn ideal
. i watched the matrix in a theater tht isnt in serious ened ofthe upgrades at teh best of times
. under no circumstances
, should it have ever been alowed tothe show a big budget special effects laden film liek the matrix
. htis theather
, owned by the pparent company ofthe oen of hollywood ' s biggest studios
, hasn ' t even graduated into stereo soudn
yot
. thge mono sound that the audience was subjected tothe sounded as if it ws comming out of a speaker thast was many years past manditory retirement age
. in otehr words
, thge soudn sucked
. as somone utilizied to digital soudn infact a movie theather
, bad soudn doesn ' t do anytying tothe add to a film
. i ' m not even gonig to go inot the horrible splicing job taht the projectionist did puting this film together
. htere
, i ' ve hadnt my rant
, nowe onthe wiht teh reguarly scheduled review
. which sadly won ' t include commentary onthe the film ' s soudn wich i ' m assuming was spectauclar
,
bu i ' m just guessing
. my guess onthe tyhe sound seems like a fairly solid one concidering thte visual quality ofthe tje matrix
. it is nothing short ofthe stunning visually
. sadly
, the rest ofthe the film
, hwile preety good
, doesn ' t quite mesure up to the obvious effort that was expended on mkaing tihs film look so darn ogod
. thte matrix hasnt at it ' s core a ogod consept
,
although it strays inot tjhe confusing side omre oftenly tahn i would hvea liked
. keanu reeves plays a coputer hacker who is drawn inot hte frightening relization thgat reality is jsut a hoax
. it turns outloud that that many years ago the world was devestated by some sort of disaster
. nowe machines run yhe planet
anbd humans spend their lives iin a sort of incubator
, plugged inot a computer network
. the computers are generating a virtual reality world which is a representation ofthe tje earth before it ws destroyed
. the population of thge planet never realizes thyat their entire life isnt a hoax
adn thast they really spend theri entire lives as comatose
. tht is exept a small band who have discovered htis horrable seret
and hve escaped theri virtal prisons
. tehy nowe spend theri lives combating the computers in an affort to expose tihs lie
. reeve ' s carachter
, neo
, is recruted by this band ofthe rebels led by morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
. newcomer carrie
- anne moss
anbd one of hollywood ' s most underated actors
, joe pantoliano
, join fishburne in tje band of freedom
- fighters
. the action sequences are nothing short ofthe spectacular
. thsi cin be atributed as much to tjhe amazing speical effects as tothe many ofthe the actor ' s exstensive pre
- production traning in martial arts
. htis lends itself tothe soem of the best martial arts sequences tht ytou are ever likely tothe see in a film
. wehn you add tihs tothe some of yhe wild effects in the cmoputer generated world
, it all adds up to an eyeful
. as i already said
, the visuals far outpace tjhe rest ofthe teh film
. acting in the matrix is nto bad
,
but it certainly isn ' t real ogod eather
. keanu reeves gives his usual fairly emotionless performances
.
althought tothe his credit
, it isnt oen of his better performances
. laurence fishburne on tjhe other hand oftenly seemed tothe foreget that he was in a sci
- fi acation film
. more than a few times he delivered his lines as if he thought he ws performing inthe soem sort of shakespearean drama
. joe pantoliano was a littel under used infact tihs film
but he made teh most withthe wqat he hadnt
. carrie
- anne moss turned out a suprizingly good peformance forthe this her first feature film role
. it ' s nice to see thyat she was casted as much for her talent as fo her breathtaking looks
. you ahev tothe give all of hte main actors a healthy dose of credit for the wrok that they obviously put into tghe physical training fo thier roles inspite thsi film
. it ws clear that no small affort whent into getting thge moves down perfectly forthe the fighting sequences
. i also put much of teh blame for teh somewhat strained performances inaddition tyhe matrix on the dialogue
, hwihc was terrible at times
. in more than a fewd places it got way too existential for my liking
anbd at otehr times it ws jsut plain weird
. it alomst seems as
though the writers weere hvaing a difficult timne trying tothe figure outloud how tothe expalin the consept for yhe movei
. so htey desided tothe make yhe dialogue as obtuse as possibile so that no oen could figure out wqat the heck they weere talking about
. thereby covering up any leaps ofthe faith tht tehy may have had to mkae in thte departments of logic
annd believability
. my otehr major complaint with tghe matrix ws with tjhe vyre unsatisfying endig
. the setup for it was hokey
annd frankly utilisied in many a bad film befor
. the endig itself was jstu plain strange
. the main reasons tothe reccommend the matrix are the visual effects
adn computer animation whitch make this a rela treat tothe watch
. while thte rest of the film
( acting
, dialogue
and tothe a degree plot
) detract from the high production values
, htey don ' t detract enough tothe prevent me fomr recomending yhe matrix as a fun way tothe spend an evening
.