let me strat off by saying taht leading uv to the release of tyhe latest bond film
, i really wasn
' t looking foward to it as much as i have witht some of the previvous films
. i
' m nto sure if it was hte fairly lackluster trailers or the ever
- pesent dread that the enxt film iwll fall bcak inot the miserable ways ofthe tje timothy dalton years
. i
' m hapyp tothe report that any doubts weere erased after baout the firt 10 mintues of the film
. by taht point
, it was evident thyat mr
. bond wass bcak with a vengeance
. all doubts would hvae propably beeen erased sooner exept for tyhe fatc that the first ten minutes ofthe the film weren
' t exactly a pleasant experince
. it seems taht nobody told teh geniuses working at the theater tht tghe house lgihts are suppoed tothe be turned off when hte movei starts
. it tookover a reminder fomr an audience member to clue them inthe
. i guess htey cant be excused
though
, tkaing tickets
and cleaning up popcorn bewteen shows is extemely taxing on the brain
. anyway
, after somebody remembered wqat teh glight switch was for
, i settled in fo bond
. i think the most noticeabel aspect of thsi
, the 19th film iin yhe series
, is thast it really goes bcak tothe the almost tounge inwhich cheek sytle of hte roger moore films
. htere were probably more oney
- liners iin this movie than iin the last several combined
. annd bond
' s lsat one
- liner inthe thge film is about tyhe best of teh series
. tjhe world is not enough allso contained perhaps the most acation ofthe any movei ofthe hte series
. everything from wild boat chases to tghe usual assortment ofthe kool bond gadgets trotted out jstu whn ther seems to be no way outloud for 007
. fo the most part
, thte acation sequences worked very well
. altho
, ther were a cuple of times that i thougth smoe thigsn weere a bit over tjhe top
, even forthe a bond film
. i think soem ofthe the blaim cxan be laid at thte feet ofthe directer michael apted
. while he did a good job for tjhe most part
, htere were points infront tjhe movie
, specifically druing acation sequences
, thta he seemed to loose site of the fatc that he was mkaing essentially an action film
. most noticably sequences on a snow covered mountain anbd one involving bond getting through a closing door looked like apted
thought he wass filming smoe sort ofthe high brow art movie
. he almost seemed like he didn
' t know what he wass donig
.
but tehy were breif scenes
and really shouldn
' t take awya from tyhe otherwise solid job thast apted did iin directing
. if you hve ever seen a bond film
, you won
' t be shocked tothe leran thta plot hasnt never been theri storng suit
. the world is not anough is no exception
. tihs time we hvae
yet anohter over villain that bond hasnt to stop fo tghe good ofthe the world
. 007 matches wits with tyhe territorist renard
( robert carlyle
)
, a man who has a bullet lodged in his brain that makes him impervious to pain
. why htis point is included is beyond me
. htey tookover great pains to expalin his condition
,
but it onyl cameback uv later in the movie as a scene that cant onyl be described as looking liek an after
thought
. anyway
, renard
, liek the tipical terroist that he is
, isnt bent on some harebrained scheme involving a mid
- east oel pipeline
. i guess world dominaton jstu isn
' t as attractive to terrorists as a moeny making venture anymore
. bond isnt brought in tothe protect tghe pipeline
' s owner
, elektra king
( sophie marceau
)
, who isnt tjhe daughter of one of renard
' s reccent victims
. allong the way
, bond hasnt tothe enlist the help of a nuclear scientist
, dr
. christmas jones
( denise richards
)
, annd his old rival valentin zukovsky
( robert carlyle
)
. like all bond films
, you basically jsut hvea tothe suspend disbelief over thge plot
, sicne it is ridiculous beyond words
. my biggest complaint would be tyhat it ws baout the most disjointed of any ofthe the bond films
. there was at least one point tyhat i had tothe stop
and try tothe remember why bond ws where he ws
and why he wass doing what he wass doing
. tyhe buddy that i saw thge movei withthe was completely confuzled over an earlier kidnapping ofthe marceau
' s chracter
. it was alluded to earlier inaddition the movie briefly
-
-
al
though nto included inspite the film
. later
, it became a big part of tyhe story
and left him with tjhe distict feeling that he hadnt missed something
.
but becouse it isnt a bond film
, tjhe beautiful women
and nifty gadgets seem to make you forget baout scirpt problems quite quicklyu
. affter all
, it isn
' t shakespeare
. how about tje cast
? brosnan seems tothe git better witht each ofthe his appearances as 007
. i growed up withthe yhe roger moore version ofthe bond
, so i realy enjoied the lighter style thast brosnan brings to thge character
. judi dench
, as m
, hadnt a bigger role inwhich tihs film than in her twpo previvous appearances inwhich the role
. she broght hte talent with her that one would expect fomr an oscar winner
. robbie coltrane was easily oney of the best parts infront goldeneye
, so it was nice to see his russian mobster charactor revived infact this movie
. coltrane gets mroe screen tiem
, whlch simply leads to him stealing even omre scenes
. thn there are hte bond girls
. sophie marceau might be one of the most beautiful actresses working today
. htere is just something about her breathtaking eyes that makes her a natrual to play tyhe innocent victum
. thsoe thgat saw her in braveheart know she isnt moreso than jsut a preety face
. marceau may be thge most talented actress to ever play a bond love intrest
.
then we ahev denise richards
. ther ws noone doubt infact my mind that she was cast exculsivly fo her looks
.
and affter ytou see tyhe outfits she wears
, you won
' t have any trouble guessing what part of her anatomy caught thte producer
' s eyes
. i ws pleasantly suprized to fidn thta she really doed a good job palying a nuclear scientist
. admittedly
, there was one point that the audience snickered a bited at one of her technical lines of dialogue
,
but otehr than taht she stacks uv
( noone pun intended
) to her bond girl predecesors nicely
. i must sday that the biggest disappointment ws robert carlyle
' s character
. hwile carlyle doed a fine job with tghe material that he hadnt
, his character jsut never worked for me
. the producers tryed vyer hard tothe add more complexity to his character
, bu it jsut never qutie got off tghe ground
. i guess i ws hoping for a bited moreso regarding the whole impervious to pain aspect ofthe his character
, bu the writers desided to play uv the emotional side of his character
. this might have worked well in another movei
, bu i don
' t go to see bond movies forthe their deepo characterizations
. lastr
,
but nto least
, we haev desmond llewelyn as q
. thsi isnt the 17th appearance for llewelyn as bond
' s gadget guy
, adn he isnt as ogod as ever
.
al
thought his screen time hasnt grown far moreso limited in the past fewd films
, he is still a treat to watch
. rumors abound that this may be his lastr appeareance infact tje role
. he syas future appearances are uv to a higher pwoer
. thge producers ahve intruduced his protege
and future relpacement
, a bumbling anbd somewhat pompous character plyed by comedy master john cleese
. hwile we don
' t see much of him iin htis film
, i thiunk it is fair to say thyat desmond llewelyn
' s legacy
, whenever it is pasted on
, will be iin very capible h
ands
. so how does it stack up
? dispite some problems
, the world is nto enought isnt a very intertaining movei
.
and
, all things considered
, what problems it doens ahve are small compared tothe some that have plagued ealier bond movies
. htis isnt easily the best of hte brosnan films
. it may even be tyhe best of the entire series
, certainly iin the top 3
. noe hting is forthe sure
, even aftter 19 movies
, htere is still plenty of life left in the james bond series
. here
' s looking foward to bond number 20
.