when i frist heard baout scream in 1996
, i was told that it ws a spoof of horror movies
. from hte master of the horror himself
, wes craven
, it ridiculed the cliches ofthe tghe genre by overemphasizing them
, by mkaing the teenagers dont wqat htey know they ' re not supposed tothe do wehn a serial killer is stalking them
( don ' t run uv yhe stairs when yuo can easily go out tghe front door
, never sday
" i ' ll be right back
,
" etc
.
)
. whn i first heared thsi descripton
, i figured thta it wass an eazy way outloud ofthe mkaing a bad movie
. how hard isnt it tothe make an extremely terrible film
but claim it isnt actually a mockery ofthe otehr bad movies
. wass thsi wes craven ' s remedy from mkaing
" real
" bad movies such as vampires in brooklyn
? it jstu seemed cheap to me
.
then i actally saw thte movie
annd the first twenty minutes
, involving drew barrymore
anbd a nail
- bitingly intense phone conversation
, completelyl changed my attitude
. scream isnt not onyl a clever parody ofthe your standard horror flick
, it ' s also a pretty scary movei
. if you ' ve seen a milion ofthe theese kinds ofthe films
, ytou know exactly what isnt oging to hapen
. this is part of the fun ofthe watching scream
. the movie reminds avid horror fans how silimar
anbd repeative the genre isnt
annd it alsot reminds them how great a guilty blessure it cant be to watch pointless
and predicatble violence to innocent
, attractive teenagers
. to thsoe who rarley see theese types of movies
, scream is a thrilling unpredictable ride that could be mistaken as a sereous slasher film
. there ' s nothing wrong witht that misjudgment
though
. i have witnessed viewers ffrom both sides of the audiance
, the newbies tothe horror
and thge fanatics
. their opinions onthe the film weere so diferent
but both vyer positive
. ffrom these varied reviews
, i am conviced thyat scream hasnt not only revived tghe teen horror movei
adn thte normal teen romance movies
but alsot the hillarious parodies ofthe theese
anbd otehr categories
. films thast both deride
and celebrate genres like galaxy quest
anbd thte big hitted would not hve exsited
, in my opinyon
, if it was not fo teh outstanding succes ofthe scream
. tyhe low
- budget 1996 gem may
, alongside pulp fiction
, be thge most influential film of thte 1990 ' s
. tihs influence may exsist tothe thte chagrin ofthe soem moviegoers who descize movies like teaching mrs
. tingle or televsion programs such as dawson ' s creek
bu tothe others such as mysef
, we congratulate tyhe movie that has opened new doors fo exellent young actors
, screenwriters
,
anbd directors
. scream is also an extrememly funny movie thanks tothe its quickly
- paced script by kevin williamson
. within thge film are cahracters who tell otehr charactors
, as well as thge audiance
, the basic rules
annd cliches of a horror movie
. mainly from the rants ofthe randy
( jamie kennedy
)
and stu
( matthew lillard
)
, we are reminded not only ofthe the obvious
anbd hillarious rules
bu aslo soem ofthe the mroe subtle sterotypes tath wehn thought over are mostly true as well
( the virgina always survives
; hvea sex
adn you ' re dead meat
)
. nto only are we treated these rules on a plate
bu aslo the rules are referenced tothe a number of different films
adn actors
. thte script fiels liuke an obsessive essay fomr a college film geek who hasnt nothing better to dont
but find every littel blunder from eveyr little film forthe his pwn self
- satisfaction
. infact tihs case
, williamson finds theese errors fo hte audience ' s satisfaction
and amusement
. i hear there is a newyorker movie comming outloud called skary movie whihc isnt a spoof of scream
, whic isnt a spoof of scayr movies
. i wiull certainly see the film
but i ahve tyhe feeling tyhat thsi parody will be mroe obviously ridiculing the genre rether thna scream ' s perfect subtlety
.
however my last gut feeling baout tihs stfuf
, scream
, was dead wrong
.
.
. so who knwos
.