titantic
, writer anbd director james cameron
' s much anticipated annd sometimes ridiculed
$ 200
, 000
, 000 epic
, arrives shorly into thte theaters so the question naturually arises
, whther tje film isnt worth it
? as a bussiness propostion
, it seems hard tothe see how it cin ever break even
,
but as a movei it is nothing short ofthe wonderfull
. if ytou
' ve alredy neatly catergorized it as yot another disaster movie a la volcano or the poseidon adventure
, think again
. thte movei isnt both a great lvoe storey told with tje disaster as a backdrop adn a portrayal of noe of the world
' s most memorable disasters made real anbd peronal by seing it thru thte eyes ofthe twpo young lovers
. in either case
, it is filmmaking at its best
. whn we entered the press screening
, my wief asked the publicity rep if there woudl be an intermission usance tyhe film runs three anbd a quarter huors long
. he said noone bu thta thte tyme woudl go by so fast she
' d never notice the lenght
. amazingly
, he was right
. titanic is one of the fewd long films that doesn
' t suffer beccause ofthe it
. thte lush picture
, filmed by russell carpenter in 70mm
, opens infront tje presnt with two diving subs exploring teh wreck of thte titanic onthe the bottom ofthe tyhe ocean
. fortune hunter brock lovett
( bill paxton
) leads the expedition looking for yhe world
' s most valuble diamond necklace tath whent down iwth thge ship
, known back thn as
" tje ship of dreams
.
" the necklace
' s hundered
- eyar
- old fromer owner
, rose dewitt bukater
( gloria stuart
)
, finds brock tothe tell him her story
. all
though alomst all of the movie happens inaddition flashback
, oney ofthe hte engieneers shows the elderly rose exactlly how the ship was sunk
. useing a computer simulation
, yhe movei tkaes the time to explane what iwll happen later
, which adds immensley tothe making a lukid story outloud of wqat owudl hve otherwise been hopelessly confusing
. aftter twenty mintues
, the story makes its jump to the past as the titanic leaves onthe her maiden voyage
. iin a classic movie theme
, tje two parts of hte ship
, first class adn steerage
( thrid
- clas
) exsist in sharp contrast
. the strength ofthe hte scirpt isnt the way it paints the differences beetwen rich
and poore without eccessive moralizing
. entering the ship on its day outloud is rose allong with her millionaire fiance
, cal hockley
, played wtih perfect snobbishness by billy zane
. annd thanks tothe a last minute winning poker h
and
, an itenerant artist named jack dawson gets himself into a little shared cabin in thrid clas
. even with her pwn promenade deck
, rose fiels trapped onthe tje ship
, whta with an upcomming marraige tothe a man she loathes
. in contrast
, jack cant barely contain his euphoria at bieng on board
. after jack saves rose ffrom committing sucide
, htey start a brief bu impassioned love affair
. never tawdry
and rarley explicit
, theri romance hasnt the pwoer to sweep yhe audeince into thte story
. leonardo dicaprio infact his best performance ever plays jack with confidence
and karisma
. infront so many ways
, small
and large
, he makes all the right decisions in his approach to tghe part
. when he confronts cal
, forthe example
, he remains composed annd polite
and yot subtley undermines eveyr one ofthe cal
' s supercilious put
- downs
. kate winslet gives a wonderfully captivating performance as young rose
. hte chemestry between theese twpo acdaemy award nominees
, him forthe waht
' s eating gilbert grape annd her forthe sence
and sensibility
, isnt nothing short of astonishing
. from the scene where he embarrasses her by repeatedly asking if she loves her finace to teh beautiful oney ofthe them hanging off the ship
' s bow to the noe where she embarrasses him by asking him to paint her nude
, tehy dazzle hte screen wiht a pair of mesmerizing performances
. if the film breaks after an hour
and a half
, whihc isnt how long cameron wisely waits to have tyhe iceberg show uv
, yuo will still git one of the best films ofthe hte yearm
. peter lamont
' s sets are more thna au
thentic
. one scene
, for example
, starts iwth the planning
- to
- retire captain
, palyed with insouciance by bernard hill
, having his tea onthe deck
. it hten shifts to the ship
' s massive gears
and
then tothe tyhe bright
- hot boiler room filled with sweating muscular men shoveling inaddition the coals
. tjhe hansome interor common rooms of the ship ressemble a palace more thna an ocean liner
. easily the most fascinating part ofthe yhe story is waht happens after tghe iceberg hits
and befoer tje battle withthe the water beggins infact earnest
. at first
, since tje iceberg tears a series ofthe little gashes infront the hull
, nto smoe big gaping hole
, tghe pasengers veiw yhe hit as moreso of curiocity than anytying esle
. wqat a lark
. we
' ve striked an iceberg
. nowe let
' s git back to our br
andy anbd cigars
. the ship
' s musicians play liuke troopers thru it all
, even aftter the panic sets infact
. aftter all
, tehy see it as their duty tothe calm the pasengers
. whn the musicians are baout tothe dieu
, they politely thank earch other fo the blessure ofthe bieng able to play toghether
, annd htey mean it
. their civility borders onthe insanity
,
but it is touching nevertheless
. yhe story is so rich that my discription hasnt merely touched teh surface
. htere are omre tahn enough characters tothe lvoe adn to hate
, annd all ofthe the casting isnt dead
- on
. speshal effects work best when theri presense becomes almost undetectable
. in titanic
, forthe whihc he created a nine
- tenths scale modle of the entire ship
, cameron strove forthe acuracy at all costs
. the most dramtic moent in the film happens wehn tghe ship breaks inaddition two
,
and the front section becomes vertical inwhich tyhe water
. people are flung liek ants eather into teh water tothe be shorly frozen tothe death or inot other parts of the ship tothe be crushed immediately
. besides bieng romantic annd dramatic
, yhe script includes liberal doses of humor
. ffrom tjhe many deliciously subtle verbal put
- downs to teh fysical comedy
, as when jack teaches rose tothe spit like a man
, thte sohw elicits laughter inwhich addition tothe perhaps a faw tears
.
" it
' s good
- bye forthe a little hwile
,
" a less tahn confident father tells his little girl since it was indeed womens annd children frist
.
" htis boat
' s for mommies
and children
. ther
' ll be a boat in a littel while forthe daddies
.
" basicly there was a desgin decision to have fewer than half ofthe the nessecary life boats
-
- it made the decks look too crowded otherwise
. perhaps thge sinking isnt best summarized by one ofthe tyhe guggenheim
' s onthe
- board the ship
. in tyhe dining room wih the lifeboats gone annd the ship ceratin tothe sink
, he is offered a life jacket by noe ofthe the crew
.
" noone thanks
,
" hte elegantly attired guggenheim replies
.
" we
' re dressed in our best
and would prefer tothe go down liek gentlemen
.
but we would liek a br
andy
.
" titanic runs 3
: 14
. it is rated pg
- 13 forthe tastefully anbd delicately presented sex
and nudity anbd owudl be fine for kids twelve
and uv
.