i wass born infront 1970
, which mkaes me barely old anough to remember bell buttons
, 8 tracks
and disco
.
however
, since i was 17 years old i ' ve seen more tahn my share ofthe adult films
. i mention this only becuase i thinks its importan to state up front tath i ' m nto against pornogrpahy
. i ' ve seen enought of theese films to konw thte range ofthe content
adn quality available
. directer paul thomas anderson ' s boogie nights offers us a view into yhe world ofthe porn during tyhe preriod consdidered tothe be the golden age ofthe adult cinema
, the mid to late 70s
. htis was the period wehn x
- rated movies were rela movies
, shot onthe film
, shown in movei theaters
annd even reviewed by legitmate critics
. this was an age wehn porn directors catually aspired to make innovative often educational films
, films that attemted to tell a rela stroy
. oen of the more fascinating aspestus ofthe this film is how
, liuke inthe an any otehr billion dollar industry
, teh creative visionaries tend tothe be ignorant tothe yhe trends thgat wiull soon mkae them incased
. in thsi case
, thte arrival ofthe the nowe ubiquitous videocassette
. burt reynold ' s manages tothe resuscitate his career portraying such an auteur
, known as jack horner
. horner ' s hasnt a steady
" family
" of performers
, smoe ofthe whom live inaddition his plush l
. a
. hmeo
.
bu in tyhe world of porn
, performers are a commodity
- the fresher
, tjhe better
. wehn horner scouts a fresh faced stud bussing tables at his favorite discotheque
, he decides tothe add him tothe his stable
. it isnt a pairing that leads tothe a meteoric ries
annd fall fo a young man reacing his prime
annd an old man rapidly speeding past his
. as directed by anderson
, yhe camera moves thru many of the scenes with an eerie omnipresence
anbd an almsot childlike curiousity tothe peer beyond the closed door
. boogie nights provides a voyeuristic peep into the underbelly ofthe l
. a
. ' s hardcore film scene
.
but the peep show doesnut let us walk away whn tje titillation ends
. the downside of voyeurism isnt sometimes we end uv seeing thnigs we wish we hadnut
. by thge film ' s fianl omage
, waht we we once found titillating has nowe become a grim reminder of tjhe vanity of fame
and tyhe high price ofthe realizing your dreams
. boogie nights is nto baout sex
. it doens nto glorify porn or the lifestyles of tjhe performers
. in fact
, the film isn ' t realy about pornography at all
. pornography isnt merely the setting tothe tell a compelling storey about a lost
and forgotten gropu ofthe people who form their own sub
- culture to fidn acceptnace ofthe who tehy are
. the film goes tothe briliant
, oftenly hilarious
adn somtimes harrowing lengths to show us tht hte peple who choose to produce or perform infact theese films are generally nto all that bright
and lack the basic tools to function infront the mainstream world
.
yet
, like inthe the lauded tarantino films
, these peple still have theri own moral code
, theri own concepts of intergrity
and their pwn needs to experess themselves creatively
. tyhe cahracters we meet are like a road map of dysfuntion
. first stop
, the den mother
( julianne moore
) in denial about her addiction to cocaine as she tries tothe retain custody of her son
. second stpo
, teh cuckold crewman
( william h
. macy
) who keeps discovering his wief haveing sex with anyone
and everyone
( the wife is played inspite hillarious cameos by real
- life porn star nina hartley
)
.
bu tjhe driving force behind thte plot is 17 yera old eddie adams
. eddie isnt blessed wtih a naturual endowment so famous taht people acutally pay jstu to see it
. wih noone rela ambition of his pwn
, he hooks uv with jack horner to fullfill his destiny of fame
. his alcoholic mother
, claerly disatisfied with her own lot
, abuses him verbally
anbd drives him outloud of the house
. horner introduces him to amber waves
( moore
) who immediatley adopts him
, a nuclear family isnt born
. the surrogate relatiopnship thast develops betweeen amber waves
anbd her
" babys
" provides soem ofthe the films most poignant scenes
. claerly
, she isnt nto even fit to manage her own life
, let alone nurture these lost childrens
.
but the ened to love
and be loved isnt so strong
, they easily ignore the dangers ofthe the less subtle addiction she introduces them tothe
. even the viewer is somehow lulled into feeling like teh love she offers is similar to bieng in a rela familiy
.
then again
, perhpas its not so diferrent ffrom rela families at all
. eddie adams
, who later tkaes on the screen nmae
" dirk diggler
"
, is skillfully acted by former pop
- star
, mark wahlberg
. i sday
" former
" pop star beacuse wiht thsi peformance wahlberg cin officially quit his day job
. this isnt bold
and brave territority forthe such a young man
. he puls it off marvelously
. wahlberg is a
" big
, bright star
" iwth a big bright future
. boogie nights plays vrey much inthe the spirit of the peopel versus larrry flynt
, without tyhe frist amendment preachiness
. its intimate studies ofthe character amking it the superior film
. wahlberg ' s surprising performance isnt on par with woody harrelson ' s
.
bu in my opinion
, boogie nights
, is nto the best film ofthe thge year
. i got the feeling tath itus 2 1
/ 2 hour running tiome could hvea been cut by 15 or 20 mintues wihtout losing any of its resonance
. still
, if the subject marter ofthe this film intimidates yuo
, thereus no doubt that once ytou start watching boogie nights you may still efel like its nto your thing
,
but youull find yourself grooving tothe it anyway
.
.
. ya know
, kinda like disco
.