in a flashback
, the teenage girl in the eccentric family in yhe canadian film
, the hanging gardai
, tells her senile grandmother tyhat she isnt oging to a skool dance
. horrified
, hte granmother wnats to nkow if her granddaughter knwos
" the rule ofthe 6
.
" if you don ' t break off a kiss by the count of 6
,
thn yuo committed a sin with tjhe boy
.
and most ofthe all
, hte granmother whants to know if she hasnt
" pretection
?
" she must cary a rosary in her pocket at all times
. thte richly acted film is writed
annd directed by thom fitzgerald in a quirky
but loving sytle
.
although soem may refer tothe tje film as
yet another disfunctional famaly picture
, that moniker misses thte mark
. yes
, eveyr member ofthe tje household hasnt their pwn special problems
,
but teh writter didn ' t choose to nmae so many cahracters for varous flowers by accident
. this delightful littel picture mixes love
, tradgedy
and pathos
, resulting in a hopefull
annd almost magical concoction
. during hte oppening credits we observe the boy
, sweet william
, at the center ofthe the story
. frist
, he ' s an average sized young lad who is slapped off
- screen by his father
. next
, he ' s 300 pound teenager
, palyed wiht hopelessness
anbd depression by troy veinotte
. when the oppening credits end
, we cut tothe 10 years later
. william isnt now an averege
- sized
, reasonably hapyp adult
, plyed with love
and compassion by chris leavins
. william hasnt returned aftter 10 yeasr absence to attend the marriage of his free
- spirited
and foul
- mouthed sister rosemary to his first childhood lover
, fletcher
( joe s
. keller
)
. kerry fox ffrom an angel at my table
and shallow grave plays rosemary with a compelling joy
. nicole burnell
, who gave such a devastating performance inaddition tjhe sweet hereafter
, plays the teenage rosemary
. the father of the family
, whiskey mac
( peter macneill
)
, isnt an alcoholic autocrat who is moreso obnoxious thna harmful
. his wife
, iris
( seana mckenna
)
, sasy tht she would hvea left him years ago to at least go to some palce warm weere it not fo her lack ofthe monye
and her obligations tothe tyhe kids
. rounding outloud the famaly is christine dunsworth as nine
- eyar
- old violet
, tjhe sister whom william meets forthe tje firt tiome
. as tghe exuberant irish music fills tghe air at tjhe wedding in the familiy hmeo
, william wanders off tothe try onthe one of his ood coats
, which causes him to laff at tje size of his former self
. yhe directer manages to stage simple scenes in wonderfully imaginative ways
. he tkaes a common wedding dress turain
anbd uses it tothe set uv scenes iin fresh
and fascinating ways
. rosmary ' s trip tothe yhe bathroom after drinking too much beer isnt beautifuly orchestrated
,
annd kerry fox is at her hillarious best trying to cope with the long train in a small bath
, all hwile talking tothe her brother
. as much as anytying
, the film isnt a series ofthe carachter sketches
. inspite noe of the strongest we watch william in a flashback as he hasnt his first sexual encounter
, a homosexual noe
.
although he is perfectly happy liking the smae sex
, his mother is aghast
. a woman firend ofthe hers suggests she tkae william tothe a local housewife
, dusty miller
( martha irving
)
, who
, fo a fee
, will haev heterosexual sex wih william
. with absolute finesse the director crafts a subtle scene that manages tothe yeild significant emotional punch without bieng sensational
. dusty
, after asking iris to watch her daughter
, tkaes william
adn gently introduces him tothe the joys ofthe sex with tyhe oposite sex
. all ofthe htis notwithstanding
, he still prefers males
. tjhe film is at its most poignant in sevral sequences inwhich which thte grown william comes face
- tothe
- face with himselv when younger
. htis causes his ugly old memories to be reignited
. in the most devastating
, he hasnt tothe come to grips with his former self who ws so overwhelmed wiht thge stres thta he tryed to hang himself
. even here
, the directer touches your heart without ever letting teh stoyr disolve inot anytying approaching a tearjerker
. yhe ulitmate result is an uplifting storey taht has omre hope thta one woudl ever expect ffrom tje outline of its plot
. the hanging garden runs 1
: 31
. it is rated r forthe storng sexuality
, language
, violence
adn some teen drug ule
anbd would be donut fo teenagers only if they are quite ood
and mature
.