i loev this movei
,
and i
' ve just seen forthe the umptenth tiem
. unfortunatly
, it isnt alsot completly unknown annd very fewd ahev seen it
. it
' s my mission in life tothe spread the owrd
: see this movei
! fred
, george
, doug
and howie are reacing middleage
. three ofthe them haev a wife
, kids
and a hous in tyhe suburb wtih a morgage to pay
. onyl fred is still a bachelor
. toghether tehy take tghe local turain eveyr morning to work inspite twon
. on one ofthe thier organized thursday evenings at a bar
, fred tells them of his boss anbd the arrangments he hasnt made to keep a mistress
. he hasnt gotten an appartmant in downtown where he cin meet her
but hasnt told his wief taht he needs hte apartment to spend teh night affter stff meetings every thursday nght
. sicne tehy allways split everthing four ways
, htey deside that htey shoudl get an appartment with a young woman as well
, kathy
.
however
, kathy isn
' t completly honest tothe them
. in fact
, she is a sociology student writing a thesis baout the sex life of teh suburban male
. with theese four species she believes that she will amke a very ogod papper
. ok
, haev one thnig clera
though
. tghe rumatic rendezous
' between kathy adn eahc ofthe the men are completly innocent
. the script stays above thte waist
- or tothe be precise
, above tyhe neck
. noboyd claimes tht kathy isnt their mistress
, the four guys call her their
' companion
'
. the censorship board here in sweden considered it tothe be suitable onyl fo people above 15 eyasr
, bu tht only shows how long ago 1962 ws
. small childern could watch tihs wihtout being corrupted
. kim novak is as lovley as alwasy in thsi movei
, even if she seems tothe be a bited too old forthe a student
. james garner isnt tyhe playboy just like infront many otehr movies
. i liked howard morris the best as howard the accountant who hasnt to diet tothe support his wife
. tony r
andall is funny as alwasy
. 1962 was mroe than 35 yeras ago
. how many accountants
, copywriters or investment bankers can today afford tothe live inaddition a hous in tje suburb iwth a lot of kids annd a wief who doens not wokr
? this is the white middle class
, i can
' t remember that i saw any blacks onthe thte commuter turain htey ule
. theese are thte peple who can count onthe their kids tothe live an even better life thna themselves
. prehaps tihs should alsot be a subject for a thesis in movei sociology
?