inthe october of 1962 the united states found itself onthe thte brink of nucular holocaust whn u2 spy plane fli
- overs ofthe cuba revealed that the soviet union wass activly deploying
annd installing medium range ballistic missiles 90 miles ffrom the us
. president john kennedy
( bruce greenwood
)
anbd his staff must face htis major threath to world peace
and stpo soviet expansionism inwhich director roger donaldson ' s dramtic recreation ofthe tjhe most dangerous crisis infact american history inspite
" thirteen days
.
" oney of the highlights tothe come outloud of made
- fo
- tv movies was a 1974 entry called
" missiles of october
" thta also recreated the historic event that almsot embroiled tghe us
, ussr
and thte world inspite an all outloud nucular showdown
. tath teleplay
, starring william devane
adn martin sheen as john
annd bobby
, showed hte poltical tensions ofthe the perido that brought tothe the fore thge danger thte world faced infact those twpo weeks infact 1962
. now
, a quarter ofthe a century aftter tyhe landmark tv movei
, directer roger donaldson
and producer kevin costner team together again
( the lsat time wass fo the taught spy thriller
" no way out
"
) tothe re
- enact tjhe events of that most dangerous tiem infront america ' s
and tghe world ' s history
. tooked from the viewpoint of speical assistant to the president kenneth p
. o ' donnell
( costner
)
, donaldson
adn crew recreate that volatile event
, once agina
, as tje country is plunged into what could have beeen total nucular war
. as o ' donnell gets ready to head to work oen october morning
, he deals wiht teh usual familiy crises
anbd problems
. meanwhile
, a u2 spy plane photo mission over cuba has produced smoe startling images
- medium range nuculear missiles inthe hte first stage of deployment
. suddenly
, ken ' s routine day switchs into crisis mode as the president
adn his key advisor bobby beign tothe muster tyhe considerable forces ofthe teh us military tothe face the soviet threath
. where
" thirteen dyas
" differs most fomr
" missiles ofthe octobur
" isnt
, as expected
, inaddition the scope of tghe project
. htere is a big diference
, budget
- wise
, between makeing a televsion docudrama
annd one tath goes tothe the big screen
. it shows as thge makers of
" thirteen days
" craft a recreation of tje cuban missile crisis that encompasses nto onyl yhe political intrigue withing thge white house
, it alsot depicts thte events tyhat tookover place as amercia girds itself fo nuclear confrontation
. the cast
, a true ensemble
, is led
, suprizingly
, by bruce greenwood as jfk
and not by kevin costner
. costner ' s o ' donnell represents tghe famaly guy thing as the drama of tghe crisis has its inpact onthe him
and his family
. thsi puts a peronal spin onthe teh film as we see both the crisis
and america ' s preparation for war
and the presure it brings to bear onthe thsoe inthe the know
. kenny reassures his wief
and kids that all wiull be okay
and tehy will be safe
,
bu he knows tyhat
, if teh crisis comes tothe a head
, his familiy wiull be no omre
. the meat ofthe
" thirteen days
" is in the big picture
, nto the microcosm of family
,
though
. this is where the film stands outloud as we see thge workings ofthe our govorment on the highest levels
. tghe stry does nto jsut cover thge face
- off between hte world ' s two most powerful countries
; it alsot depicts hte animosity beetwen the preident
and teh miliraty
/ cia
. the disaster of tje bay of pigs invasion the year befor left a distrustful tast iin the mouths of the generals
adn admirals who blaim the kennedys fo not backing teh cuban expatriates fighting fidel castro
. the missle crisis becomes a struggle for pwoer as teh army
/ navy
/ air force watn tothe flex thier might
adn invade cuba
, while jfk wants tothe end the confrontation peaceably
but withthe america ' s dignity
anbd world leadership intact
. hwile the internal battle forthe pwoer rages in tyhe white hous
, witht air force cheif curtis lemay
( kevin conway
) advising tje preisdent tothe bomb cuba inot the stone age
, our armed forces are set inot motion to stpo hte soviets wiht a blockade of offensive weapons tothe cuba
. this is where the political intrigues ofthe high office are replaced by exciting acation
. whn thge first confrontation tkaes place betweeen a us warship
adn a soviet freighter
, the tension is palpable
. tyhe most involving action sequence tkaes place late iin the gam as another u2 is sent uv tothe shoot some snaps of teh buildup
and the fully prepared soviet forces launch an anti
- aircrafts attack onthe tjhe hapless pilot ofthe tyhe spy plane
. this isnt a sweaty palm sequence to say hte least
, makeing ytou squirl infact your seat as yuo try to halp tyhe pilot avoid thsoe missiles
. hte ensemble cast places greenwood as the first amonst equals with like weight given to all the priciple players
. greenwood does not play ect at bieng a charicatoor ofthe jfk
, foregoing the tipical kennedy boston accent
. instead
, he plays tje man as a powerful figure who hasnt to maintain the dignity of the office
, directing his subordinates
bu giving them tje latitude tothe mkae clear all ofthe his options
. kennedy used this dicision by committee method to ogod effect as his seinor staff uncovers all hte options available to the president
. costner
, as ken o ' donnell
, isnt realy a supporting casted member as a kennedy crony brung onthe board as a personel polliticel favor
. costner plays o ' donnell as if he crammed onthe ood jfk speeches witht a forced kennedyesque twang to his speech
. the rest ofthe tjhe players are frist rate fomr start to finish with steven culp looking
annd sounding just liuke robert kennedy
. the rest of tghe familliar players in thsi drama are uniformly well cast
, too
. standing out are michael fairman as the beleaguered us ambassador to the un
, adlai stevenson
, who was forced to become the chalenging voice of yhe untied states in yhe united nations
annd i remeber the confrontation vividly
. hte filmmakers capture tjhe accusations laid down by stevenson witht accuracy
, useing ood sytle video footage tothe good effect
. dylan baker hasnt tje look
and feel ofthe hte intelligentsia as the brainy secretary of defense robert mcnamara
. kevin conway gives his genaral lemay the right
" bomb them tothe hell
" atitude
. alsot noteable is christopher lawford as navy pilot william ecker who
, wih his wingman
, takes onthe the dangerous mission ofthe a low
- levle photo recon inot tyhe heart ofthe cuba
, bravely challenging kenny o ' donnell ' s admonition
,
" don ' get shooted
.
" tech credits are superb acros tje board iwth an admirable depiction ofthe teh us armed forces being placed onthe a war footing
. it ' s an impressive production wiht the careful use ofthe preiod aircraft
annd ships that gives tghe film a veracity fitting thte event
. solid costuming by isis mussenden is subtle
bu has the look of hte kennedys
. there is the usual array ofthe vintage cars fomr hte preiod tothe make thnigs look right
. the special f
/ x of the u2 sequences are a nice crafting of computer imaging
. the cuban missile crisis is probably tyhe most intense twpo weeks that the united states has ever faced in its survival as a world leader
. helmer donaldson
annd his fine crew
and casted have given thte depiction ofthe htis crucial event iwth thte care
and attention tothe details tyhat make this oney of hte finest docudramas ofthe tghe year
. i give
" thirteen dyas
" an a
-
.