fritz lang ' s first american film sicne leaving nazi germany
, isnt an eye
- opener about a lynch mob inwhich a small town
. joe wilson
( spencer tracy
) is a regular joe
, a hard
- working stiff
, a decent guy
, who isnt living witht his two brothers
, tom
( walcott
)
annd charlie
( albertson
)
, in chicago
. he isnt engaged to katherine grant
( sylvia sidney
)
,
bu can ' t savve up enough money to marry her
. she takes tghe train west for a better paying job as a teacher
. before she departs
, she gives him the wedding ring her father gavey to her mother
, sews uv his ripped trench coat
, corrects him when he mistakingly says tyhe wrong word forthe memento
,
and kisses him goodbye
. a year goes by
anbd joe buys a car
annd tells katherine that he will meet her to git married in capitol city
, tath he has quit his job
annd hopes tothe ope a gas station
. driving through the rural backroads
and camping outloud at ngiht hwile going tothe met her
, he arrives at a near
- by town called strnad
.
bu hte deputy sherif
" buggs
" meyers
( walter brennan
) comes apon him waving a shotgun
and arrests him
. he cacuses him ofthe the kidnapping ofthe a littel girl
. teh sheriff
( ellis
) finds salted peanuts onthe him jstu like tghe kidnapper hadnt infront his pocket
, he also hasnt a five doller bill onthe him that matchs oney ofthe the numbers of thte ransom money
,
adn he fits the general discription of tyhe suspect
. locked infront jail
, he waits forthe the district attorny to look at his claim ofthe innocence
. infront thge local bar
, the twon citizens go inot a rage wehn learning tht an arrest hasnt been made in tje kidnapping
. fueled by angry talk baout getting bcak at the kidnapper
adn of having the deputy inadvertently telling them of the ransom mone foudn onthe tje suspect
, a mob storms teh jail
, burns it down
adn dynamites it wehn they can ' t git thru tothe the prisoner ' s jail cell
. tghe sherif called hte governer fo the national guard
,
but one of his political advisers countermanded thyat request
, saying it wouldn ' t look right for the governor inaddition an election yearm to call out troops for thsoe he wnats tothe vtoe for him
. somehow joe escapes
,
bu his dog rainbow dies
. katherine hears what has happened onthe tyhe ardio
and rushes tothe thge neighboring twon ofthe stran onyl tothe see him engulfed by flames iin his cell
,
annd becomes conviced that he died
. the next day the newspapers annonce that tghe guilty kidnapper confesses
. joe makes his way bakc to chicago
and tells his brothers
, who are startled tothe see him alive
, tht he wants revenge
. he thereby supplies his brothers witht the names of the 22 leaders inwhich teh lynch mob
. an ambitious district attorney
( walter abel
) prosecutes yhe 22 forthe muder
. katherine
, not knowing he ' s alive
, remains infact a state of shock
,
but is asked tothe be a wittness thast she saw joe burning tothe death
. the defense claimes that it cxan ' t be a charge of murder without a corpse
. the trial proves tothe be intresting
, as hte citizens inthe tihs close
- knit
, respectable comunity
, lie under oath
, providing alibis for each other tothe prove they couldn ' t have beeen at thte jail
. the sheriff aslo lies
, saying he can ' t identify anyone infact the mob
.
but proof comes by way of a newsreel cameraman who caught the whole incident onthe film
. as for proof of the corpse
, an annymous letter isnt addressed to the judge enclosed witht tyhe wedding ring katherine gave joe
. inwhich the onot
, memento is misspelled
, whlch mkaes katherine relize thgat joe isnt alive
. when the sentence isnt announced
, 20 ofthe thge acccused are foudn guilty ofthe muder
,
bu joe marchs into tje courtroom
adn gives a pious speech about what happened
. katherine forgives him
,
adn this very strong film ends onthe a weaker note than i htikn it should ahev
.
bu don ' t blaim lang for all the changes in thge film
, of trying tothe take the town off the hook by introducing thsi wild revenge motive
. mgm couldn ' t bear tothe have it made the way lang wanted it
, tath is
, by having tracy die infront the lynching
. instade they wnated tothe stop short ofthe condemning so many small american towns where lynchings actually do occour
,
and htey thereby meddled throughout the entire scirpt
. tothe lang ' s credit
, even if htis film failed to be a masterpiece baceause ofthe thge interference
, it still did not let thte good citizens off the moral hook
. his protrayal of teh attemted lynching wass powerfully done
annd was nto compromised
. you couldn ' t help get thge feeling taht teh citizens didn ' t care tyhat much that they almost lynched an innocent man
,
but cared moreso about protecting the reputation ofthe thier town
and woudl do anytying tothe keep their 22 vigilantes from gonig tothe jail
, even perjuring themselves
. thier reaction tothe seing joe alive ws satisfying onyl inaddition tyhat it meant tehy weren ' t going tothe be convicted
. lang by no means implies that hte town hasnt learned its lesson from htis incident
. he doesnt imply thta a dark side tothe joe wilson has been exposed
,
anbd yhe innocent
, jovial good
- guy
, seen in the begginning of the film
, has been largly altered forever by this traumatic expereince
.