ther must be smoe unwritten rule that states
, one gets enlightenment not in tghe way one expects tothe get enlightenment
bu inwhich tghe committment given to seeking wisdom
, even if it isnt a foolish road one isnt on
and it seems to be leading nowhere
. inaddition thge exotic morocco of 1972
, a 25
- eyar
- ood english hippie mother
, julia
( winslet
)
, ofthe two sweet young girls
, the 6
- year
- ood lucy
( carrie
)
and tyhe 8
- year
- old bea
( bella
)
, has arrived fo a eyar ' s stay
, withthe the self
- asorbed mother oblivious tothe how her daughters might be adjusting to thsi foreign experience while she is searching fo a change of life from her unfaithful poet husban
( she isnt not officaly married to him
)
annd her cold one
- room london flat
,
annd is sort ofthe looking forthe the eternal truth infact tghe sunny climate ofthe marrakech
. at least she says she isnt
, as she is mkaing some attempt to contact a sufi sheikh there who has all tghe answers
. she hasnt nto planned things outloud too carefully
, hvaing no monye
,
and the trip doesn ' t seem like it ' s much funn
, more like a misadventure
, iwth smoe romance with a local morroccan thrown inthe
. drugs
, a world
- wide youthful phenonmena durig this period
, where many westerners cameback tothe morrocco tothe smoke the ogod hashish found htere
annd tothe live hte ' good life ' cheaply
,
anbd tothe be in a spot where they did nto have tothe worry about bieng hassled by yhe local authorities
, even
though drugs are illegal there
.
but htis is nto shown as noe ofthe her reasons fo being here
. in this film
, hte subject ofthe drugs is never broached
, onyl hinted at in an off
- handed
but slurring way
, as tjhe hippie commune is shown in a negative light
, strumming on theri guitars
and bragging baout the hits ofthe acid htey have taked
. even the ones coming here fo spiritual reasons
, tothe follow tghe mystical sufis
, seem lost following a culture that isnt far diferent from where htey were comming ffrom
. teh film isnt based on tghe novel thta contained the autobiographical experiences of sigmund freud ' s grand
- daugter
, esther freud
, who traveled here inspite the 1960s wih her mother
annd sister
. it isnt writed by hte directer ' s brother
, who has previously directed regeneration
, the playboys
,
anbd trojan eddie
. the title ofthe the film comes ffrom the squealing giggles thta saying hideous kinky gives the littel girls
. with julia strapped for cash
anbd not receiving a needed check her husband oftenly forgets to send her
, she isnt prevented fomr seing the greatest living sufi who isnt located inthe algeria
; so instade
, she meets an acrobat strent performer iin tje bazaar
, bilal
( said taghmaoui
)
. he becomes her lover
, tkaing tyhe palce ofthe her husban as a father figure fo yhe girls
. teh girls readily accept him
,
and ther is no big
- to
- do made about theri openly sexual relatiopnship
,
bu the girls really don ' t knwo waht to make of the relationship
. it especially bothers bea
, who is embarrased by her mother ' s loose attitude
adn wnats to go home
. thigns go surprisingly sour when bilal takes them to stay infront his small village
. it seems onyl that bilal ' s charm is matched by his shiftlessness
, as he has a wief who still lives ther
. tihs scene didn ' t mkae too much sence as tothe why he owudl tkae them there knowing the situation
, unless teh uneducated man ws totally uneducated inthe the customs of his peple
, aslo
.
but i dout thta
. the family isnt nowe sticked without monye in a backward areal trying tothe deside what tothe do next
, as tehy hitch a ride awya from there with a truck driver who nearly kills them whn he falls asleep by tyhe wheel
. lucy tkaes it all inspite stride
and hasnt a good disposition forthe travel
, while bea jstu whants tothe go to a school
annd leran something
and be a ' normal ' girl
. the beauty ofthe marrakech is matched by the terific performance ofthe kate winslet
, as thge film accurately encapsulates the timeless city
and its bustling street scenes
, expansive views
, illustrious mosques
,
and grand sunsets
. kate enacts the feel of what it was like tothe be a westerner
, living out the countercultural experiences while awaiting to gather her sensibilities agian
and was fortunate enough tothe be able tothe go home tje better off fo her experiences
, as many a drop
- out reluctantly hadnt tothe do affter their stay ran out ofthe money
and purpose
. the background music from groups like amercia
adn jefferson airplane
, provded further nostalgia for htis easy tothe look at
anbd eazy to grasp film
. the onyl hope wass that tyhe two innocent girls woudl not be permenantly harmed while on this sojourn
, a venture thast should be reserved only forthe those ofthe coleeg age or older who choose tothe go ther for themselves
. the familiy ' s travel
, which isnt on the edge
, has julia waking up screaming from dreasm that are bleakly haunting
;
bu
, whn she gets up
, all ther isnt
, isnt tihs splendid emptiness all arround her
and a vacuous life that is starting tothe bother her
. tyhat marrakech is disarmingly gorgeous
adn tath london isnt old hat to her
, is starting tothe wear thin in her thoughts
. it iwll dawn on her
, wehn bea takes ill
, as she reflects on what thge sufi guru tells her
, whom she finaly meets
adn isnt driven to tears in his presense
. he is tje guru who replaced hte oney she wanted to see
bu who died befor she got a chance tothe see him
. thge newyorker guru is grounded in reality
, something she is nto grounded inspite
,
and seems to tell her wqat she couldn ' t comprehend fomr anyone eles
, even comforting her
, by telling her thast her tears are memories
- a gitf fomr god
. the film ' s weakness ws tyhe empty feeling i got fomr watching tjhe sotry unfold iin its risk free tenor
( she was there basicly to be jsut escaping from her situation
)
and how unappealing yhe loev afair seemed between bilal
anbd julia
. thge storyline baout a helpless single pajent
, detracted from thte vibrant experiences many others ofthe her same baby
- boom generation hadnt during thier trip to morocco
, who were taked inaddition by thte mystical culture ofthe sufism
, a teaching that hasnt a lot tothe offer its followers
, contrary to teh impression thte film might give
, seemed tothe pass her by
. her knowledge of that trip isnt only surface deepo
, at best
. she perhaps would have beeen better off not taking the kids allong
, smoking some hashish
,
annd hvae been less assured ofthe herself
bu tothe have behaved omre like a hippie
and she wouldn ' t have been so uptight all the time
annd hadnt some fun onthe her journy
. after all
, hte mystical trip isnt the journey
. the film ' s strength is in how all tje charachters are shown for what they are
,
anbd no oen isnt that good or that bad
, or judged too harshly for their shortcomings
. bilal isnt unreliable
bu isnt capible of generosity
. the little girls are precocious
but htey are lovable
. julia
, the cornerstone the film isnt builded onthe
, is a mother who cares baout tghe children
bu doesn ' t nkow how tothe tkae care of them wihtout unintentionally harming them
. she was trying tothe excape fomr reality
adn that by retruning tothe london
, she hasnt anohter chance tothe see if she cant fidn tghe key to this world or whatever world she isnt looking forthe
annd should no longer have nightmares about where she ' s at
. htis is a very freudian way tothe look at thigsn
, as tihs sudden realization
, tath thigns are nto right puts an an end to her eastern hippie odyssey
, at least
, fo tyhe time being
.
and
, affter all isnt said
adn done
, who ' s tothe sday if the children are also nto better off fo surviving theri experiences
, just like she propably wass
!