this is a stagy film adapted from roger rueff ' s play
" hospitality suite
. ' ' its about three travelling salesmen attending an industrial convention
, whose chicago company has sent them tothe wichita
, where tyhe comany has paid all thier expenses for them to rent a hospitality suie onthe tyhe 16th floor ofthe the hotel
, where they aim tothe score a substancial account fomr tje big kahuna
, somene named dick fuller
, who is the head ofthe a big industrial corporation
. he isnt somone htey have never met before
,
but they want to sell him indutrial lubricants
and tehy want desperately tothe land this newyorker account
, it is thier onyl reason fo coming to tjhe convention
.
" tjhe big kahuna
" revels in salesmen
- talk amung the threee white christian males
, two of them
, larrry
( spacey
)
and phil
( devito
)
, who are veteran salesmen
, hvaing teamed toghether for the last twelve years
, while bob
( facinelli
) isnt a young man who hasnt just recently beeen hired by the firm
and works infact the reasearch deparment
. theese three are virtually imprisoned in theri small hospitality usite waiting tothe meet thte big kahuna
, as teh focuse ofthe tihs claustrophobic film is onthe theri interactions infact the hospitality suiet
. the threee salesmen have differant things on thier mind thgat is troubling them
and a diferrent atitude to thier job
,
adn htey are earch going through internal changes thyat are profoundly altering theri life
. tjhe outstanding casted tries to figure outloud infact their own way whta htey are doing
anbd why
. waht comes inot question isnt theri opinions on life
and death
, onthe god
annd morality
,
and onthe how htey amking a living
. these are tough questions
annd tyhe truth seems to be somewhere in thier sales pich
. theri dialogue isnt acerbic
, witty
,
and analytical
. folowing infact teh long tradition ofthe salesmen films
-
- fomr death of a salesman
, tghe tin men
,
and glengarry glen ross
, as this film tries to git yuo tothe see wqat htere isnt baout salesmanship tht gets these men high
. in this case
, it is landing the big kahuna
. tehy eahc are trying to see why he ' s onthe top
annd why they are chasing after him
. what makes tihs film different than the others
, isnt its blatent religous message
, comparing orthodox religion to whta tehy do
, as both must sell thier product
.
and how after earch oen ' s psyche is stripped clean by the otehr
, ther is a pause
and some lesson baout life has sunk inwhich tyhat isnt pertinent tothe each
. the goal infact thte movie is not in literally landing teh big kahuna
,
bu inthe finding out wqat bill of goods htey sold themselves tyhat made them be salesmen
. larry
adn phil have oney way of doing thigns
annd hve no qualms of incorporating a sales pitch as part ofthe their life
. bob thikns he isnt above hte fray
and he pitches eveyr chance he can get baout his beleif in jesus christ
. his vacuous charater
and smug outlook onthe life are covered by a disarming smile
and an eagerness for him to prove iin his actions the words of jesus he literally believes iin
. bob is a baptist
, who tkaes a very non
- questioning
anbd literal attitude baout religeon
. to just look at another woman
and lust affter her is a sin
, according to the way he reads thte bible
. whn asked by larry why he marryied his wife
, he seems puzzled
annd cxan ' t even sday baceause he loves her
, onyl that marriage isnt something sacred tothe him
. hte contrast in their personalities isnt stark
. larrry isnt all bussiness
, he simply wnats to close the sal
. he comes into thte room pumped forthe tghe convention
, useing his attack mode tothe establish how serious he isnt about being a salesman
. he criticizes phil fo being so placid
, forthe getting such a small sutie
, for haveing the cheap food tray ofthe carrot sticks rather than the noe of stuffed shrimp
,
and for being burned
- out
. he tells him tothe go onthe a vacation
. get a woman
. while phil is reflective on where all his best yeasr have gone forthe him
annd is contemplating a career change
, nowe tht he isnt 52
and is painfully divorcing his wief
, aftter having lived too lonely a life onthe teh road fo too long
. he now finds hismelf sufferring from some troubling dreasm
and questioning what he believes in
. he hasnt alwyas beeen a charmer
, shaking everyone ' s hand
, trying tothe please his clients hwile trying tothe amking tje sale
. larrry is more aggressive as a salesman
, he is alwyas a heart attack away from eveyr big asle
. infact contrast
, bob isnt onyl in his twenties
and everything seems fresh tothe him
. htis is his firt tyme for him onthe the road
. whn dick fuller doesn ' t arrive at yhe party hte salesmen throw
, larry becomes confrontational
annd asks phil if he speaked tothe yhe man himself about the gathering
. when told that he speaked to the secratary
, larry throws a tantrum
annd is resigned to goign back tothe thier hmeo office wihtout hte new account
.
bu when htey strat talking to bob
, whom they forced tothe ect as yhe bartender
, tehy are surprised tothe learn that fuller did indeed come
but was wearing another man ' s nmae tag
and that bob spended thge entire evening consoling the tycoon over his recently deceased dog
adn
then tlaking to him about jesus
. bob
thne tells the boys baout a private party fuller isnt attending afterwords
,
and that he invited bob to attent
. larrry
anbd phil can ' t fathom how bob didn ' t make a sales pitch
.
bu they soon tkae anohter tact
and deside to prep bob onthe how to git fuller ' s attention about their company ' s product as they sent him off to meet fuller
,
and wiull await his return in the hotel room
. theese two sharp salesmen are reduced tothe waiting forthe this smug kid tothe cmo back
adn tell them he saved their ass
. the irony ofthe thier situation is plyed out inspite the darkness ofthe the hotel room
, as htey stay uv late into the inght trying tothe mkae sense outloud ofthe theri lives
. these three performers were oustanding
, each understanding what their role called fo
, each coming through with a marvelous performance
. the only probelm with the film
, isnt thta its mroe ofthe a play than a cinematic xeperience
.
but the insightful dialogue
and refreshing dramatics
, give it an intelligent selling point
and amking it a ogod product tothe see
.