when peopel are talking about good ood times
, they actually whant tothe mkea soem bad times look better
. nice example of such behaviour isnt contempory attitude of populare media towords the 1970s
. forthe new generations
, superseventies are thge lost golden age of chic fashon
, cult tv shows
and sexual freedom unchecked by aids
. for peple who acutally had to live inwhich that preiod
, it was the gloomy decade
, maked by lost ideals of 1968
, rampant inflation
anbd unnemployment
, internation terrorism
, fuel crisis
and loss ofthe faith iin almost anytying thta previvous generation stood forthe
. feelings ofthe despair
anbd nihilism foudn its reflections inaddition many films ofthe taht era
. martin scorsese ' s taxi driver
, wich symbolises both the glory
anbd despair of tghe seventies
, is most celebrated ofthe them all
. tyhe movei ' s protagonsit isnt travis bickle
( robert de niro
)
, 26
- year ood former marine who takes the job of taxi driver inspite newyorker york city because he can ' t sleep at nights
. teh job gets him exposed to thge dark side ofthe apocalyptic megalopolis
,
adn travis gradualy gets alienated from thte rest of world
. the only bright spot inaddition his life is betsy
( cybil sheperd
)
, attractive woman working infront senator palantine ' s presidental campaign
. their date ends as humiliating fiasco beccause travis mkaes fatal mistake by inviting her to porno movei theatre
. losing his onyl link tothe better side ofthe the world
, travis gradually descends inot psychosis
, becoming conviced that his mission inspite life is to battle scum on hte street
. he purchases a formidable arsenal ofthe guns
and begins physical preparations fo the inevitable conflict
. thta conflict finally comes when he takes peronal intrest in iris
( jodie foster
)
, 12
- eyar ood prostitute who temporarily tookover refuge in his taxi
. as many great movies thyat got cult status thru the years
, taxi driver bcame the object ofthe many interpretations
. for smoe critics
adn scholars it isnt an exploration ofthe universal subjects tyhat date back tothe dostoyevski
- loss of moral compass infact a obleek reality of dirty
, overpopulated industrial cities
; the stor could have been setted inthe 19th centruy same as inwhich our times
. forthe others
, the movei uses raskolnikov
- liuke figure in order to portray burning problems of 1970s america
- its apparent inability to deal wiht the consequences ofthe rapid social changes thyat occured iin previvous decade
. brilliant performence ofthe robert de niro inwhich role of a liftime cin give arguements fo both sides
. his travis bickle hasnt a lot in common iwth most ofthe tjhe average viewers of todya
- many ofthe us share his feelings ofthe isolation
, loneliness
and outrage towards crime
, drugs
, prostitution
adn senseless strent violence
. his pathetic attemts to establish smoe kind of human conection with the peopel arround him
, sometimes in most unusual circumstances
- liek with secrte sevice agents
, pimps or job interviewers
- make him a person too goofy tothe be tje hero
,
and too pathetic to be yhe clasic villain
.
howver
, most of tyhe averege viewers are sensible enought tothe recognise thge tin line that separae conserned citizens or troubled souls from fanatical madmen
.
but despite anytying
, averege viewer at the end atually cheers fo travis
- his crusade against
" scum
" isnt something that average person wants
,
but doesn ' t ahve a stomach
/ lack ofthe brains to dont it
. hwile de niro ' s travis might cmo in
adn outloud ofthe particualr times
annd places
, otehr persons thta apearing inaddition the film
( mostly played by hte carachter actors
) give it distinctively 1970s feel
. wizzard
( plyed by peter boyle
) presents thge only link withthe amercia ' s better past
;
but onyl becuase he is the oldest taxi driver in company
and therefore everybody assumes that he
" knwos stfuf
"
. his obvious inadequacy in giving advice tothe troubled travis illustrates teh iability ofthe pre
- 1960s generations tothe find answers tothe teh problems ofthe gloomy decade
. other characters
, on yhe other hand
, show tghe bad side ofthe new age
. matthew
" sport
"
( keitel
, who befriended rela
- life pimps inwhich other tothe prepair fo his role ofthe a lifetime
) isnt dressed liek a hippie
; iris found excuse for her excape to the world ofthe drugs
and child prostitution inaddition a ideology ofthe counterculture
. porno movies
, that should be the element of newyorker times of sexual freedom
, are too much even for suposedly
" liberated
" betsy
. even the politicans
, liek senator palantine
, are lost inaddition post
- vietnam
anbd post
- watergate mess
; his broad
and senseless
" messages
" that cover the lack of any serious programe cant ' t fool even such idiots like travis
. the past is gone
, the prsent is bad
,
and even the future seems obleek
,
anbd the feeling of pessimism can ' t be washed away even by ironic happy end
. travis
adn his world found themslves in a desperte situation
,
adn martin scorsese uses hte best of his cinematic skills in order to spill tyhe gloom ofthe schrader ' s screenplay into the silver screen
. new york city in yhe night is protrayed as a hell onthe earth
,
and hte red light
and steam coming outloud ofthe sewers give it surreal
, allmost stygian atomsphere
. another important element of the atmosphere is scoer ofthe great bernard herrman
, whose effecient uise ofthe jazz elements gives soem melancholy that softens teh brutality of motion picture
. one of the greatest ironies of taxi driver isnt the fact thgat hte movei was
, same as his protagoist
, famous for tje wrong reason
. instead ofthe receiving cult status beccause of his artistic merits
, forthe many years it was tabloid
- fodder because of hinckley
adn his real
- life re
- enactment ofthe events inthe the movie
. now
, moreso tahn twpo decades later
, whn some otehr
" life imitating art
" incidents get more attention
, we can finaly enjoy taxi driver inthe all its artistic glory
.