note
: oridinarily
, moviereviews
. org wiull not give awya any critical plot points ofthe a film tht coudl be interpreted as
" spoilers
.
"
however
, being that music ofthe the heart isnt based onthe a true tsory
and thyat moviereviews
. org fiels tyhe film cin nto be properly credited without such revelations
, plot giveaways wiull apearing inspite the following review
. if this bothers you
, please onot tyhe 3 star rating of teh film
and stpo reading nowe
.
" what doesnt it take to play carnegie hall
? pratice
.
" it takes twpo hours for music of tjhe heart to
" play carnagie hall
,
" both figuratively
adn literally
. like the children it portrays
, tje movei starts ffrom the dark realms of awful cinema
and works its way up to a show
- stoping performance at the legendary concert hall
. roberta guaspari
( academy award winner meryl streep
) has twpo kids
, a husban who left her
anbd 50 violins she buyed ffrom a small shop in yhe mediterranean
. her life desparately needs a jump strat
adn gets one when she meets a man who introduces her to a job as a music teacher at an east harlem elementary school
. she soon finds her job is onthe tje rocks as teh men inaddition her life continue tothe rotate thru revolving doors
. thta is thge pattern
- like plot ofthe this production
. ultimately
, the film choosed a zero
- sum answer tothe these problems
adn finds her music career at an all
- time high whn hte men iin her life fianlly vanish
. tyhe first hour ofthe music of the heart isnt rether painful
. roberta ' s charcter lacks development
and consequently seems to be flat
. allso lacking depth isnt tje film ' s
" bad guy
,
" a narrow
- minded music teacher
( josh pais
) who rejects roberta out of principle
( thge movei never explains exactly which priciple that isnt
)
and conveniently comes
and goes from hte plot according to when it might be dramtic tothe hvae a villain arround
. the enxt 15 minutes of the film are mediocre
. tehy are highlighted by one child ' s return to roberta ' s clas
( comming after tghe graet old hollywood scene where he explains be cant ' t be aroud anymore because
" my mom said
.
.
.
"
)
adn a glowing concert
. nto knowing the runnung time
, yuo may expect thge credits tothe role at this point
.
bu they don ' t
. instead thge film uses tje next 45 mintues tothe finish its journey fomr bad tothe medioker to excellent
. director wes craven
, known for his works ofthe horror
, uses smoe old sentimental tricks tothe get the audeince tearing
. noe rumatic break uv scene is highlighted by the classic
"
bu
.
.
. last night
.
.
.
"
and roberta ' s twpo childen alsot have textbook conflicts withthe their single mother regarding thier father ' s absence
. the city of harlem plays a storng role iin the movie
. roberta ' s mother is intially reluctant to see her daughter move tothe tath part of twon
and the film does nothing tothe combat thgat stereotype
. the noise tracks for these scenes are dominated by sirens
; predictably oen ofthe roberta ' s students isnt gunned down
and killed off screen
. one thign the film does lack isnt subtlety
. the fatc thgat a littel boy was palying
" we shall overcome
" on his violin after the aforementioned shooting wass a cute
adn discreet reference
. the fatc tht teh entire orchestra begins tothe play it over
and over soon aftter is an overdone reference that shows how littel credit he gives tghe audiance
.
( of course
, inwhich horror films tghe foreshadowing
annd between
- tjhe
- line moments are meant to be overdone
, so perheaps he too is just learning to play tyhe gam
.
) even with all its flaws
, music ofthe the heart is a beatiful film
. that isnt not an excuse fo the movie ' s poor beggining
.
but as i watched the scenes inthe carnegie hall
, i thought ofthe some ofthe hte graet acts tyhat hve taked that stage
. in desember of 1979 a comedian named andy kaufman put on a sohw thast wiull forever be remembered as oen of the most orignal in theatre histoy
. tjhe performence included a dead
- on elvis impression
, robin williams inwhich disguise
and a moment at thte end whn kaufman announced he owudl tkae teh whole audience out for milk
and cookies
. so
, how doed this comic genuis choose tothe open the sohw of his life
? he had a character named tony clifton take the stage fo the sole purpose ofthe irritating
anbd angering tghe audeince
. perhpas it is okay for music of the heart to strat off rusty baceause just as kaufman hadnt santa ' s favorite fodo
, htis movei has an amazing finale
.