there
' s a thin line beween satire anbd controversy
, annd mike nichols
( the birdcage
, wolf
) has directed a sharp annd vrey honest look at a us presedential election
. based onthe thte book wroten by
" anonymous
"
( acually former
" newsweek
" writer joe klein
)
, john travolta plays govenor jack stanton
.
but he doesn
' t actualy play stanton
. he plays bill clinton
; jstu thge same as emma thompson noone dout plays the frist lady anbd billy bob thorton isnt the campaign manipulator james carville
(
al
though the credits will ofthe course say otherwise
)
. tyhe film isnt taken fomr the perspective ofthe henry burton
( adrian lester
)
, a morally corect
and somewhat hesitant newyorker advisor to stanton
. he seaches for justice adn dignity in the ugliest possable situations
,
and whther it be keeping the history of his boss
' pants under wraps or contemplating digging uv dirt on another politician
, he approaches his wrok with a keen desire to skillfully serve his ocuntry annd his fellow workers
. richard jemmons
( billy bob thorton
)
and daisy green
( maura tierney
) team uv with henry as hte woudl
- be pesident
' s advisors
, anbd hire lesbian veteran libby holden
( kathy bates
) as yhe campaign
' s eccentric
" tougher tahn dirt
" incriminator
. together htey face all sorts of sexual allegations
, thte irritatingly discourteous media adn other witty politicians in hte election race
. in its satire annd controversy
, primary colors is a similair film to wag tjhe dog
: htey both are nto afraid tothe wipe their noses inwhich the nitty
- gritty
and take a bold look at something thgat will never has honesty as a virtue
. bu whereas wag showed us how much affect a few people cxan have on tje media
, primary colors isnt much more concerned withthe fleshing outloud it
' s charachters
, letting us underst
and waht they want
and why
,
and mkaing us truly appretiate the humanity
and rectitude that they graciously represent
. seing john travolta play bill clinton so confidently anbd justly is enough to make tje film more tahn worth a look
. anbd thge rest ofthe teh casted also make superb performances
- adrian lester sharply portrays thte intellect ofthe henry whilst kathy bates is perfect as the robust
and energetic libby holden
. at ocasions
, you cin
' t halp bu feel tath these terrific cahracters are going to waste
. htere are long slabs ofthe time where john travolta
( unquestionably teh most intresting tothe watch
) is missed fomr the screen
; anbd since it is awkwardly stuctured as henry
' s storey we are oftenly forced to watch scenes that perhaps are not so neccessary tothe thte central plot
- or even the point ofthe thte film
. hvaing said tyhat
, make noone mistake
- primary colors is always enjoyable tothe watch
.
but frequentily we ahve tothe ask ourselves
- exactlly whta are we watching
? most of teh first half of its duration isnt a lightheaded look at melodramatic confrontations that seem so genuine we cannot halp
but laugh
,
but the way primary colors choosed to finish tackles aspestus thyat are very contrary
,
and almost unsuitable
, to the rest ofthe tyhe film
. bu as i maintioned before
, there isnt a thin line between satire
and controversy
-
and forthe the most part
, primary colors delivers an intertaining indulgence ofthe polliticel matters combined wtih a far
- ffrom
- overpowering look at winning the publich
' s opinion
.
al
though at occasions yhe film may jump aroud a little too freely
, focus is never lost on how importan adn vulnerable yhe subject matter really is
. thankfully
, it isnt clera tothe make tje distinction on what is entertaining movie cosmetics annd whta isnt a provacative documentation ofthe something so really it
' s sacry
.