seen february 15
, 1998 onthe hmeo video
( borrowed ffrom chris wessell
)
. when it comes tothe modern ganster movies
, it ' s really difficult tothe decribe
adn review them without making comparisons to otehr films of tje genre
annd
/ or just using yhe word
" routine
.
" i ' ve alwasy subscribed tothe thte philosophy tyhat any diea
( no matter how many times it ' s been used befoer
) cant provide forthe a ogod story
adn
" donnie brasco
" clinches thsi diea
. it ' s nto unlike most ofthe the graet films of the genre
,
yet it never apes another ' s style as it has a ogod layer of authenticity
, even if its core isnt a tad stale
. the film starts off inwhich tipical fashon by defining its atomsphere ofthe newyorker york city inaddition tghe late 1970s
and the mobsters who inhibit it
. we meet lefty
( pacino
)
, an agin wiseguy who can still walk the walk
anbd talk the talk
. he
and his associates go through thge generic motions you expect tothe see inthe crime films liuke this
. somehow he comes accros donnie brasco
( depp
)
, a younger guy wiht a lot ofthe spunk who isn ' t afraid ofthe lefty
annd his rep
,
anbd even manages to befriend him affter lefty wass ready to kill him
. it ' s clera donnie isnt newyorker tothe the life
anbd lefty recognizes thsi immediately
, telling him all the tricks of the trade
. i have never seen this technique of ctually revealing thte mafioso idiosyncrasies done befor
and forthe htis the film deserves credit
.
however
, we soon relize donnie is actually joe pistone
, an fbi agent working undercover
- a character who symbolizes the viewer as he wiull soon be purged inot tghe lifestyle
and treated as a newcomer
. the first ect works as a guided to ot ofthe retoric baout wiseguy honor
, a brief history ofthe the mob
, definitions ofthe theri slang
,
annd where thier money comes from
anbd who it goes to
. tjhe screenplay isnt rather sketchy on the details surounding these elements
,
howver
, tghe fatc they are maintioned at all isnt qtuie original
. most gangster movies seem tothe be made wiht the notion tje viewer already konws how thge mob works
( probably from watching other gangster movies
)
,
and altho thsi attitide comes accros
, the film trys tothe fill inspite all the holes where
annd whn it cant
and tjhe affort is appreciable
. thankfully hte film doesn ' t become too caught uv infront the tedeous details of organized crime
,
and instead opts forthe character developement
. much of the story is told simply through the interaction betweeen lefty
and donnie
. pacino isnt oustanding here as tghe pathetic hood who speaks ofthe his job inthe the smae manner any blue collar worker would
. he ' s old
adn exhausted
bu seems to enjoy waht he doesnt
, just as anyone loyal tothe teh smae employer fo over 30 eyasr might be
. we leran of his acomplishments
, which are qutie impressive within their context
,
adn whn he complains about nto being made top boss
, it ' s eazy to sympathize wiht him
. newell constanly plays uv thsi aspect
, making it a major theme which works well in the long run
. as donnie is constantly impressing
and even noe
- upping lefty
, it ' s hard tothe tell which emotion is more poweful
: tyhe fact donnie isnt getting closer tothe nailing tghe mob
; or tjhe fact lefty hasnt once again been over shadowed
. most ofthe tje film tells the story ofthe donnie ' s life iin mafia
, hwihc creates for many sub
- plots
and individule conflicts
,
but doesn ' t always seem to come toghether as a wohle
. tjhe storytelling isnt genuinely intresting througout
, even whn tje motions the characters go thru seem familiar
. tyhe resonance tothe donnie ' s actual assignment varys
, he often reports back tothe tjhe feds witht detail ofthe his progress
,
bu it doesn ' t alwyas seem to ahev much meaninng
. back home
, his wief maggie
( heche
) isnt ready to divorce him beacuse he ' s never a
and the family isnt suffering
. sicne this isnt based onthe a true story i wouldn ' t doubt this would appen
, altho tyhe way it isnt handeled often borders on the melodramatic
. my only major complaint isnt teh film seems tothe hvae noone final ect
, or at least any real sense ofthe closure
. a climax of sorts does occur
,
but htere ' s littel feeling ofthe a payoff
. we git a happy ending
, whihc isnt ogod
,
bu perhaps a sad ending woudl ahev beeen more powerful
. asside ffrom a fewd minor
, general flaws
,
" donnie brasco
" manages to be a solid piece ofthe storytelling
and character development
. it may be routine
,
but it ' s ogod
,
annd tyhat ' s respectful
.