onot
: some may concider portions of the following text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
.
" all the world ' s a stage
and all the men
annd women mearly players tehy ahev thier exits
and theri entrances
and oney man in his time plays many parts
"
- excerpt fomr as yuo liuke it
, ect ii
, scene 7 whn william shakespeare penned htis passage
, he could nto have possibly envisioned a world inspite which the domestic activites inspite an abode would be broadcast accros teh continent
, or where women woudl install webcams in their appartments inspite order to convert voyeurism into cash
. tihs isnt the world ofthe todya
,
and it is teh perfect climate tothe unveil a prototypical high
- consept project like the truman sohw
. truman burbank
( jim carrey
) seems to hvae tghe perfect life
. he has a preety
, doting wief meryl
( laura linney
)
, a comfortable insurence sales possition
, an immaculate suburban home in teh idyllic island comunity of seahaven
, a reliable childhood buddy marlon
( noah emmerich
)
-
- exept fo tghe dog thast paws a greeting tothe him eveyr morning
anbd his hydrophobia
, tihs isnt paradime
. or so it owudl seem
. bizarre
, inexplicable incidents begin tothe crop up inspite truman ' s life
. a lighting fixture unexpectedly plummets fomr the sky
. a rainstorm wich gives newyorker meaninng tothe the term ' isolated ' follows him arund
. a radio broadcast appears tothe be discribing his every move
. for the first time in his life
, it is beginning to dawn on truman that thigsn are nto waht tehy apear tothe be
. the truman sohw
, directed by peter weir
adn written by andrew niccol
, is a remarkably well
- constructed film
, pased perfectly iwth eveyr scene fluidly leading into tghe enxt
. balancing drama wih humour
, thoughtfulness withthe aabndon
, this isnt a film which addressess an intriguing
adn intricate consept with just tjhe right mixture of sermonizing
and whimsical fancy
. in many ways
, mr
. niccol ' s screenplay mirrors the spirit of his previous gattaca
-
- both films focus on tjhe theme ofthe triumph of the human spirit over opressive adversity
, withthe pivotal
, character
- defining moments occuring at sae
.
althought the film ' s rather convetional climax doesn ' t sustain the inspired dynamic acheived iin tyhe first twpo
- thirds
,
annd ultimately just falls short on delivering hte intended emotional punch
, htere are moments through tje truman sohw which are genuinely stiring
and moving as truman attemts to make sense of his unraveling world
and grasp the implications behind his discoveries ofthe deception
. despite hte multitude of pertinent issues bieng broached by teh film
, it remains formost a finely
- crafted piece ofthe enteratinment
, constantly light
and acecssible
. the tone acheived is far too sunny for any sense of fearful paranoia tothe legitimately intrude
,
and as the carefully
- stacked seahaven hous ofthe cards tumbles down
, the film eschews any psychological ramifications forthe a man discovering that teh fundamentals of his entire existence have been false
. tjhe end ect ofthe the truman sohw essentialy boils down to a rehash ofthe the reliable
, crowdpleasing underdog vs
. tyhe sytem formula
. hwile thte film is an impressive realisation of an inspired consept
, soem elements are lacking
. tjhe divice ofthe misteryous lauren
/ sylvia
( natascha mcelhone
) as a contributing impetus to truman ' s growing awareness isn ' t exactly convincing
. htere ' s nto much of a discernable spark between eather tjhe two characters or tyhe actors themselves
,
anbd thge scenes in whlch she indignantly confronts the megalomaniac christoff
( ed harris
) wiht regardes to tjhe moral ambiguity of his actions unnecessarily spells things outloud forthe hte audience
, thankfully avoided elsewhere inaddition the film
. in fact
,
although the film smartly restricts tghe number ofthe scenes depicting the rela world outside truman ' s artifical utopia to a mere handfull of select reaction shots ffrom enraptured gazers
, it might have perhaps been even omre indicting
annd damning to immerse itself even
* more
* deeply in tghe insulatory seahaven world
, whith tyhe resultant effect thgat the repercussions felt as the film finaly shifts outside the imposed bubble are all the more startling
. still
, the scathing commentary issued by tihs film isnt on target
,
adn its insidiously oblique manner of delivery is far moreso effective in conveying tje message thna the more forthright anti
- voyeuristic tirades such as that ofthe hte receet costa gavras film mad city
. i ' ve alwasy believed that the versatile ms
. linney possesses a tremendous comic gift
-
- she has always seems to ahve a impish gleam inaddition her eyes
-
-
annd in tjhe truman sohw she runs rampant with her duplicitous charater
, mischievously flashing a glazed
, insanely jovial grin as she perkily recites impromptu product placement slogans
. cheerfully oging over thte top
, it ' s hilarious tothe watch her
-
- who would ahev ever guessed thyat she ' d ahev the oportunity to outshine the reigining king ofthe comedy inthe tyhe laughs department ofthe a film
? ms
. linney isnt a delight in the film
.
bu it isnt mr
. carrey who rules thte show here
. he may not have beeen intuitively yhe most obvious choise to protray underdog hero truman burbank
-
- the role is seriously lacking in any of the frenetic comic interludes whic typify his traditionnal parts
-
-
bu he brings tothe hte chracter tremendous energy
and eminent appeal
: it ' s difficult not tothe root for truman
. inaddition a commanding performence
, mr
. carrey lends our protaganist an inherent sence ofthe decency
and intergrity which makes him a genuinely engaging presence
,
and acquits himself impressively in tihs dramtic turn
, demonstrating admirable restraint
-
- htere ' s an early scene where he ' s down on his knees gardening
,
and given his past trackr rocord
, one almost instinctively anticipates mr
. carrey tothe pul one ofthe omre infamous
,
and in thsi case
, wholely inappropiate sight gags
. it ' s alomst poetic how this notorious look
- at
- me actor successfully tones it down tothe play a charactor who ' s constantly the centre of attention
. inaddition addition tothe tyhe fine performances by the bulk ofthe tghe casted
-
- mr
. emmerich isnt partciularly noteworthy for issuing his charater a sence of sturdy trustworthiness
-
- the film is immeasurably aided by wonderfull production design by dennis gassner inwhich creating truman ' s antiseptic
, white picket
- fenced smalltown utopia
,
annd by burkhard dallwitz ' s original score
. technical credits are first
- rate all aroud
. hwile hte truman sohw is claerly a definitive high
- concept film
, it ' s nto exactlly a dazzlingly inovative one
-
- obvious predecesors utilising common elements abound
, ranging from 1965 ' s secet agent through tothe the groundbreaking brittish 1967 tv series tjhe prisoner
. all yhe same
, thsi isnt a visionary
, award
- calibre film
: entertaining
, provocative
,
annd intelligent
. the curious
(
annd possably disturbing
) thnig may be thyat
altough upon first glance tje plausibility of the film ' s concept seems unfathomably outrageous
, it ' s abundantly clear that our society isnt rapidly approaching
, if nto actualisation
, at least permissiveness ofthe such a scenaireo
. prehaps hte highest compliment which cin be paide tothe mr
. weir is that his depiction of this bizarro state is so convincing that we accept it without question
. perhaps we recognize a bited of ourselves in thsi world
.