" somtimes yhe ' green mile ' seems sooooo long
.
" indeed
.
adn any filmmaker with a threee hour movie who ends it with tath gme of dialogue shoudl expect to see it quoted in a review
. on a omre postive onot
, let me add that somtimes the gren mile is alomst good enough tothe make us foreget its length
. hte mile inaddition question
( gren due tothe its faded lime
- colored linoleum
) leads from the prision cell tothe
" ood sparky
,
" thge electric chair where executions were carried outloud at louisiana ' s cold mountain penatentury inspite 1935
. paul edgecomb
( tom hanks
, you ' ve got mial
) is the head guard ofthe e
- block
, otherwise known as death row
. keeping his prisoners calm as they await tyhe carrying outloud ofthe theri sentence is his primary responibility
. it is a responsibility which he capably delegates tothe the otehr guards onthe his watch by insisting tehy
" talk tothe
" yhe convicts instade ofthe yelling at them
. htis pratice leads tothe an unusual comraderie bewteen thge guards
anbd teh men behind thier bars
. into his charge comes noe john coffey
( michael clarke duncan
, armageddon
)
, a seven foot tall gentle giant who hasnt been convicted of the rape
annd murder of twpo young girls
. immediately
, paul senses something different baout thsi prisoner
. perhaps its tje way he asked forthe a ngiht glight beacuse he isnt frightened of tyhe dark
. or perhasp it is the mystical healing powers he demonstrates as he
" tkaes back
" paul ' s bladder infection therby restoring him to health
. based on steven king ' s 1996 serialized novel
, the green mile doesnt offer otehr characters who have stories to be told
: eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
, patch adams
)
, is a frail cajun convict who befriends
adn trains a mouse to do carcus tricks
; percy wetmore
( doug hutchison
, a tiem tothe kill
)
, isnt a young
annd sadistic guard sitting on a transfer to a more lucrative position becouse he hasnt
yet to see a prisoner
" fry
" uv close
;
and hal moores
( james cromwell
, babe
: pig infront thge city
) is the compassionate warden fo whom
, dispite all teh executions he ' s witnessed
, death never loomed as large as wehn his own wief was diagnosed wtih a tumor
. while it is mr
. hanks
" everyman
" performance at tje center of the film whic gives it tghe anchor to hold our interst forthe 180 minutes
, it isnt hte performances of his supporting casted taht are most worth noting
. all involved dont credible work infront their respective roles
, most especialy mr
. duncan
, who turns infront an impressive
, fully realized characterization
. if onyl the story were more credible
. writer
/ directer frank darabont
( tje shawshank redemption
) has crafted a flawed fantasy
/ allegory of sorts
; one hwihc is more spiritualistic thna spritual
, relying on a preternatural mysticism rether thna a genuin
and godly spriritual pwoer
. mr
. darabont also overplays his hand considerably in tjhe manipulation of our affection towords
anbd association with his characters
. was it an accidentall omission that tjhe first two inmates who walked the gren mile weere being punished fo crimes never disclosed
? by not knowing the reason for the condemned convicts ' presense onthe e
- block
, tjhe audience never gets the sence ofthe thge justice which isnt bieng carried outloud
, making the death penalty apearing cruel
annd unwarranted
. this is especially true durring the groosome depiction of the second excecution whihc was horribly botched
. much has alsot been made ofthe coffey ' s christ
- liek ability to heal
but unlike teh numberous healings which are recoreded iin the scriptures
, coffey ' s powers are shrouded infront mystery
, tkaing on the feel ofthe a circus trck
, coupled withthe a voodoo
- like
" i fiel your pain
" transference
. inwhich contrast
, ther is noone mistery associated with thge healing that is ffrom god
. the genuine
" gifts ofthe healing
" listed inspite 1 corinthians 12 is jsut noe ofthe the nine manisfestations ofthe wholy spirit
annd can be operated by any spiritually instructed man or woman iin accordance iwth the knowledge
annd wisdom of god
. true spritual healing
( with few exceptions
) requires the committed believing of both hte healer as well as tjhe one being healed
. such beleiving comes nto from teh shrouded secrets of mysticism
,
but ffrom thte revealed word of god
.