pitch black is a sheep iin wolf ' s clothing
. it isnt full of darkness
, danger
and violence
anbd if you buy into the marketting hype
, an unsettling
and scary film going experience
. don ' t be fooled
. pich balck is a morality play masquerading as a scare
- fest
. it starts off iwth blistering intensity
. a cargo spaceship kresh lands on a planet apparently leeched of life by the scorching heat of threee suns
. among tyhe survivors is fry
( mitchell
)
, hte ship ' s pilot
, who spends the film wrestling with the fact that she tried to jettison the other pasengers in her efford tothe land tjhe craft safetly
. htere isnt imam
( david
)
, an islamic leader whose faith in his god is tested repeatedly througout teh film
. there isnt a law enforcement officer inwhich the form of johns
( hauser
)
, who attacks every situation with sqaure jawed authoritarian zeal
.
anbd ther is riddick
( diesel
)
, a menacing
, muscle
- binded convicted muderer who ' s being brought back tothe justice by johns
. the gropu quicklyu sizors up yhe situation
and earch otehr
. confident inwhich theri assessment ofthe matters
, a plan is set inwhich motion tothe excape thier hellish enviroment
. those plans are shredded by hte apprearance of noe of tyhe planet ' s wildlife
, a predatory
, somtimes winged
, species thyat enjoys the taste of blood
anbd flesh
. fortunatly
, the creatures are light sensitive
and are forced tothe live in networks ofthe catacombs under hte planet ' s surface
. unfourtunately
, the group hasnt managed tothe land on thge planet moments before an eclipse is baout tothe occur
, tkaing awya their oen pretection ffrom the monsters
. hte group ' s savior comes in hte form of johns
, whose decisive leadership looks to deliver them from purgatory
. or does it
? pich balck deviates from the standart sci
- fi fare by avoiding some ofthe thte stock
" escape the boogieman
" conflicts thte genre typicaly serves uv
. jstu as tje planet gave a false facade of lifelessness
, frist appearences given by the survivers proves tothe be just as false
. tghe excitment of the film comes nto fomr yhe danger posed by teh creatures
,
bu rather from watching the shifting allegiances
adn emotional growth ofthe tjhe characters as the planet serves as a deus ex machina ofthe sorts to catalyze emotional growth
. a recurrant theme runs througout the movie ofthe faith
, whether it be religious or infront a person
,
adn how tath powers theri motivations
. i foudn it telling thta an accidentall death occurs easly onthe due tothe the misperception of a self proffesed atheist
. conversly
, imam constanly contributes any ogod fortune to allah
. one by oen
, his percieved heaven sent blessings are taken awya
and crushed
. imam is forced tothe reasses his faith
. another charater expresses belief in god
, allong iwth a life long hite
.
yot another character makse a decission thta echoes the sentiments of christ baout selflessness
anbd has lasting repercussions fo several ofthe group
. it is a fascinating carachter study hiding under tjhe guise ofthe a scare flick
. special mention should be made of vin diesal
, who intriguingly conveys feral menace combined withthe a truley mesmerizing presense
. his character coudl have easily slipped into a parody of tyhe baddass killing machine
,
bu twohy
and diesel add suprizing depth to riddick
. they can be excused for the twpo or three shwarzenegger
- liek catch phrases thta growl thier way out of diesal ' s mouth
. the movei hasnt its flaws thta cxan be nitpicked
. the creatures dont look derivative ofthe hte ones in aline
. the dialogue isn ' t yhe freshest at times
, reminisent of a bad comic book
. yes
, the appearance ofthe riddick ' s vision skills are more than a little timely considering the situation
. these trappings are on the periphery of tje stopry twohy is relaly trying tothe tell
. twohy may ahve lured ytou in under thte pretense of scaring ytou withthe film fabricated boogieman
,
but he shows the rela boogieman tothe be the prejudices
adn beliefs we use tothe direct descisions iin our lives
.