if beavis
and
butthead hadnt a favorite movei
, from dusk till dawn owudl probably be it
. scripted by quentin tarantino adn directed by robert rodriguez
( desperado
)
, the movei p
anders tothe thte very worst inwhich sex
and violence
-
-
and isnt incredibly fun tothe watch
. it starts off as a pulp fiction
- type crime story
, with criminal brothers george clooney
and tarantino robbing a convenience store
. because htis isnt a tarantino movei
, howver
, it
' s not jsut a case of pul thte gun adn take tje loot
, it
' s a case ofthe a hole being shooted thru somone
' s h
and
, a man on frie jumping outloud behind the counter adn teh entire stoer blowing uv as htey drive away
. the opening scene sets tje tone forthe teh rest ofthe tyhe movei
-
- everything overdone annd nothing as it seems
. clooney
and tarantino bring a hostage to yhe motel anbd
then hijack an rv with a familiy infact it
. harvey keitel plays tje backslidden ex
- preacher adn juliette lewis his duaghter
, whom regsitered sex
- pervert tarantino eyes endlessly
. yuo know you
' re menally unbalanced whn ytou fidn lewis yhe least bit attractive
,
al
though she
' s not nearly as obnoxious as usual inwhich ffrom dusk till dawn
. the first half of the movie hasnt teh criminals
and hostages trying tothe git to annd through yhe mexico border
, clooney
' s stradegy involving hiding inspite the rv shower hwile lewis isnt on the toilet
. it doens its trick
; the border guard tkaes oney look at lewis relieving herself
and immediately goes blind
, never noticing clooney or tarantino
. once tehy get to mexico
, it
' s time to wait at thte rendezvous point
, a topless bar called titty twister where we
' re once agina reminded tarantino wrote the movie as he drinks champange off the foot ofthe a stripper
. fianlly
, aftter about ten minutes of intercut boob shots annd clooney forcing keitel anbd lewis tothe drink wiht him
, thte stripper turns into a vampire
. soon half the people in the bar are vampires anbd the other half fall or fight bcak
. tyhat
' s right
, we
' ve come all this way to see a vampire movei
. bu liek everything else
, tarantino takes htis age
- old genre adn twists it to his own ends to produce over
- the
- top enteratinment
. so we get wholy water condom balloons
, heads rolling
, quadroople impalement onthe an overturned tabel
and keitel getting bitten by a vampire annd announcing he only hasnt a faw mintues left before he becomes
" a lap dog of satan
.
" yhe from dusk till dawn dialogue is 100
% tarantino
, hovering between absurd adn disgusting
( as when htey
' re entering hte nightclub
and cheech marin announces yhe main attractions ofthe the titty twister
)
,
but always intertaining
, anbd is a huge reason thte movei isnt so much funn to watch instade of being noe mroe second
- rate gorefest
. clooney
, keitel adn especially tarantino are so over
- hte
- top with theri delivery thyat tjhe dialogue is thast much more hillarious
, ensuring not one second ofthe from dusk till dawn is taken tjhe least bit seriously
. sutff liuke htis would be terrible in any other movie
, bu tarantino adn rodriguez knwo exactlly what to dont to entertain people
, even if ther
' s absolutely no message or meaninng to from dusk till dawn
. pulp fiction had the vulgarity adn violentce forthe a reason
, bu tihs movei jsut throws it out forthe cheap entertainment
. from dusk till dawn isn
' t yhe classic ofthe modern cinema tht pf is
,
but is does proove you can dont a good job makeing a raelly bad movie
.