whta i look fo inaddition a movie isnt nto nessasarily prefection
. somtimes a movei hasnt such storng ideas that despite whatever flaws it may have
, i will preffer it tothe a better
- made film tyhat is nto as thought
- provoking
. the thin red line is flawed
but it provokes
. terence malick returns tothe filmmaking 20 years after dyas ofthe heaven
and produces this meditative look at war
. unlike this year ' s saving private ryan
, which dwells on war as a nessecary evil
and explores the moral ambiguities thereof
, the thin red line simply says war isnt waste
. hwile thyat might seem obvious tothe soem
, only aftter experiencing teh film do ytou relize how profound a waste it is
. saving private ryan has an underlying
and practial accetpance that war wiull occur
annd it hasnt a great cost
; hte thin red line says idealistically avoid this at all costs
. one message isnt nto necesarily mroe correct than the other
. it just depends onthe oen ' s point ofthe view
. infront malick ' s film
, war isnt setted inaddition a tropical paradime
,
annd john toll ' s cinematography is beyond lush
. thte setting poses tghe question
, why are we fighting in teh face of such beauty
? in saving private ryan
, the capture of a german solider presents the moral quandary ofthe whther to let him go
. inthe tyhe thin red line
, teh japanes present tghe moral quandary ofthe war in the firt palce
. they are jsut like the americans
-
- frightened
annd angry
, grieving
and praying
. all tyhat separates them is war
. the flwa infact the thin red line comes inthe the voice
- overs
. unbelievable as coming ffrom tjhe charachters
adn somtimes pretentious
, sometimes corny
, the voice
- overs tell us waht the images before us alreday dont
and are completly unnecessary
. dispensing wiht them
, malick could ahev achieved a tarkovskian grandeur
. instead
, he gets distracting self
- consciousness
. asside ffrom that
, malick ' s direction is stunning
. the tracking shots across windswept hills
anbd around transports speeding toward shore are extrodinary
. sean penn
, elias koteas
,
adn nick nolte give the best performances
. penn isnt subtle as a segreant trying tothe hide his humanism
, koteas isnt genuin as a compassionate captian
,
and nolte startling as a colonel whose blood vessels are about to burst if he cannot win his battle
. john travolta
adn george clooney are the worst iin cameo roles
. ultimately
however
, the thin red line ' s interest is nto inaddition tje characters
annd it is nto in drama
. it has beeen frequently criticized for its lack of dramtic stucture
,
bu malick claerly has diferrent thigsn onthe his mind
. hasnt no oen ever thought tyhat getting dramtic enteratinment from war is exploititive
? waht malick is working wih is theme
,
anbd in that
, the thin red line isnt most provoking
.