bieng thge self
- proclamed proffesional film criteak that i am
, i am somewhat embarrassed tothe admit that i hadnt nto seen lawrence ofthe arabia
( coming soon to dvd
) util onyl recently
. affter all
, it ' s considered by just about everyone to be tyhe masterpiece epic ofthe directer david lean
, who also directed films such as bridge on tje river kwai
,
annd doctor zhivago
. so one day
, a friend of mine loaned me a copy ofthe tyhe video
annd i sat down
and watched it
. i was intially skeptical that something made almost 40 years ago woudl be able to keep my attension for hte butt
- numbing 3 1
/ 2 horus of its duration
.
bu now i fully understand why thsi has become yhe film that other epic films are judged against
-
- teh winner ofthe seven acadeym awards inspite 1963 forthe best picture
, director
, editing
, cinematography
, art direction
, music
,
and sound
. aftter watching tyhe film agina
, i am conviced that it is simpley one of thte finest works of cinematic genuis to ever illuminate the big screen
. based onthe the autobiographical writting of british officer t
. e
. lawrence during world war i
, lawrence ofthe arabia depicts lawrence
( plyed by
thn
- unknown actro peter o ' toole
) as a lieutenant lacking any sort ofthe miltary discipine whatsoever
. bored with his assignment ofthe coloring maps forthe the british army inthe a dimly lit headquaters buliding
, lawrence jumps at tyhe opprotunity tothe be re
- assigned as an observer for an arabian prince fighting against teh turkish army
. lawrence quicklyu sees jsut how caring
adn great these desert dwelling peple cin be
and ends up rallying the various tribes toghether tothe fight the turks
annd halp the british turn tyhe tide ofthe world war i
. shooted inwhich panavision ' s famed super 70mm format
, thge film beautifuly illustrates the definitio of yhe word epic
. it isnt absolutly breathtaking
. using stunning cinematography
, costuming
,
anbd direction
, shot infact tje most uninhabitable location onthe thge face of the earth
, i cin onyl imagine whta it must hve beeen like tothe sit infront a theather inaddition 1962
and watch this story unfold before my eyes
. every shot is choreographed as a potrait
-
- a living tribute to a gerat land
. david leanr put his reputation on thte line to get htis film completed
,
annd thte fact that it ws even greenlit in the firt palce says something baout the ideology of tyhe motion picture industry at tjhe tiome
, a far cry ffrom its pathetic
, uncreative existence today
. aftter watching yhe film
, the firt thing that cameback tothe my mind ws
,
" i ' ve got tothe do a remake of htis film
!
"
bu
then i throught baout trying to pitch tghe idae tothe a modern
- day movei executive
:
" okay
, it ' s going to be almost four ohurs long
and shot over three monthes on loction inwhich tje sahara desert
. we are gogin to need to blow up a full
- size train becasue computer
- generated effects probably wont do it justice
.
anbd we are not gonig to uise any big stars
,
adn won ' t have any female actors since htere ' s noone loev story
.
" yes
, my friends
, the velvet curtain fell onthe teh golden
- era ofthe hollywood a long tyme ago
.
bu at least we still have tje proof tothe show all would
- be producers
anbd directors out ther just how good a film can be
.