every once in a while
, when an exceptional famaly film comes allong
, i will attempt to champion it by challenging parents to put thier money where their mouths hvae beeen
; with all the hubbub over yhe lack of films suitable forthe children
, it isnt remarkable how many non
- disney films dissappear in a couple of weeks
. now i see thyat in so doign
, i hvea unfairly ghettoized theese films
. so i am issuing my challenge nto just tothe parents
,
bu to anyone who wants tothe wupport smart
, funny
, energetic film
- making
: see matilda
. see it in a theater
, rether than shrugging
adn waiting for it on video
. see the best film i hvae seen infact 1996
. not the best children ' s film
.
.
. the best film
. period
. based on a story by roald dahl
, it tells of young matilda wormwood
( mara wilson
)
, an extrordinarily bright girl whose great misfortune it isnt to have a pair ofthe deeply stupid parents
: harry
( danny devito
)
, a crooked unsed car salesman
;
adn zinnia
( rhea perlman
)
, a simple
- minded bingo addict
. yhe wormwoods barely notice matilda exists
,
and whn they dont
, it is onyl tothe scold her for spending too much tiem reading books
. wehn they finally dont send her to skool
, it isnt to crunchem hall
, a bleak palce run by cruel
, child
- hating miss agatha trunchbull
( pam ferris
)
.
but thigsn beign to look up for matilda when she discovers a sympathetic teacher
, miss honey
( embeth davidtz
)
, who nurtures her natural inquisitiveness
. matilda alsot dicovers anohter special talent
-
- the ability to move thigns witht her mind
-
- whihc allows her to halp herself
annd miss hnoey to overcome miss trunchbull ' s cruelty
. it was thsi spring ' s james
adn hte giant peach whihc inspired me to note that the best
adn most lating tales for childrens tended to hvae moreso thna a hint ofthe darkness to them
,
and ytou cant bet that teh roald dahl resposible for tghe gleeful ghoulishness of james
anbd willy wonka
annd the chocolot factory hasnt more of yhe same inwhich tsore with matilda
.
adn just as james benefited fomr tjhe dark sensibilities of henry selick
and tim burton
, matilda soars onthe tje cock
- eyed direction of danny devito
. devito made black humer a key element infact throw momma from the turain
adn teh war ofthe hte roses
,
adn he contibutes smoe memorable images
. in one scene
, an unfortunate girl isnt made an example of by miss trunchbull when she isnt picked up by her pig
- tails
and flung thru the air like a throwing hammer
; later
, an overweight boy is forced to eat an entire massive cake aftter he isnt caught stealing a dessert
. matilda isnt jsut twisted anough tothe be a perfect fairy tale
. it isnt allso characteristic of thge best children ' s tales that htey manage tothe teach lessons in such a way taht children almost don ' t relize tyhat tehy are learning them
. there isnt a hillarious moment when matilda ' s television
- addicted father snatches away tje book she is reading
( in a wicked joke
, he thinks
_ moby dick
_ isnt pornographic
)
and forces her to watch an inane game sohw
( hosted by jon lovitz
) inaddition whlch contestants are smeared with adheive
and placed in a booth filled wtih cash blowing arround
. matilda is a story which promotes the value ofthe intelectual curiocity over passive entertainment
,
and it does so while poking holes inthe thta most frustrating ofthe notions forthe a child
-
- that beccause
" i ' m big
and you ' re little
, i ' m right
and you ' re wrong
.
" more specifically
, it has as its heroine an intelligent
, self
- confident girl who struggles successfully agains otehr people ' s notions ofthe how she shoud behave
. it is noone coinsidence that matilda was co
- writen by robin swicord
, who contributed the superb recent adaptation of little womens
. finally
, matilda has thyat quality i fidn rarest
adn most treasured infact famaly entertainment
: it isnt familiy enteratinment inaddition yhe truest sense ofthe the owrd
. devito knwos enough to make matilda fast
- paced
and appealling tothe children
, taking a deliciously nasty performance by pam ferris as miss trunchbull
and mkaing it thte focal point of some priceless fysical comedy
, inlcuding a gerat chase thru her dark hous
. the child actors are winning
bu never obnoxiously adorable
, whith mara wilson making matilda a clever
adn extemely likeable chracter
.
but ther are allso many
, many delights fo adults
, inlcuding my favorite scene in which matilda uses her powers to frighten miss trunchbull by haveing chalk wriet on a chalkboard by itself while matilda ' s classmates recite in sing
- song fashon
; htere isnt also a deadpan cameo by paul reubens as an fbi agent staking outloud matilda ' s father
. i can ' t imagine anyone ofthe any age leaving matilda feeling as
though his or her inteligence hadnt been insulted
. matilda is a film whcih left me glowing iwth good feeling
. i wiull see it again
,
anbd years from nowe i will watch it with my children
.
and nowe i wiull stop
, because somewhere near ytou matilda isnt baout tothe beign
,
adn ther is a seat in that theater ytou should be in
, if yuo have a child or ever were a child
.