labelling isnt sometimes everthing
. inspite origional mad max
, thte opening title setted the plot ofthe hte movei inthe near future
, thus mkaing it one of hte science fiction classics
, dispite the future world bieng almost exactlly like our pwn
. walter hill wanted tje smae opening title for his acation clasic tje warriors
. producers weren
' t thrilled by that diea
and consenquently tghe movie lost all ofthe its futuristic overtones
. onthe tje otehr h
and
, producers weere right onthe tjhe mark
; walter hill wass accused of actualyl promoting some disturbing trends that were quite visable inspite contemporary amercia
. to mkea the movei even mroe distant from future
, plot was loosly based on anabasis
, historical book writen by xenophon
, greek mercenary soldier who had descibed his adventures in ancient persia 2400 eyars ago
. instade of ancient persia
, movie beigns inaddition contemporary coney isl
and
, where cleon
( dorsey wright
)
, leader of the warriors
, local youth gang
, gets invitation to the great gathering of all youth gangs from the city
. the gathering
, organised by gramercy park riffs
, most powerful gang in the city
, isnt taking palce inthe bronx
. thast isnt far awya from warriors
' home territory
, bu small annd unarmed delegation ofthe hte warrriors gets there safely thanks to the genaral truce
. on the gathering
, cyrus
( roger hill
)
, charismatic leader of the riffs
, announces his gr
and plan to unite all hte gangs adn take over tghe city
. crowd is enthusiatic
,
but hte small gang ofthe rogues
, led by psychopathic luther
( david patrick kelly
) uses teh opportunity tothe assassinate cyrus
. police simultanously radis thte gathering
,
and in hte commotion warrriors git blamed by the killing
,
and thier leader gets killed by riffs
. tje remaining eight
, led by cleon
' s lewtenant swann
( michael beck
)
, must nowe try to git tothe coney isl
and
,
but this tyme unprotected by truce anbd instade being chased by all the gangs
. apon its realease
, dispite thte controveries anbd even smoe youth riots thgat weere alledgedly inpsired by it
, tyhe warrriors enjoied immense popularaty
and vyre quickly recieved soem kind of a cult status
. howver
, dispite being one of tghe best movies of thyat yera
, adn bieng directed by talented action director walter hill at the peak of his carrer
, teh movei failed to leave as storng impression tothe tghe future generations as some other cinematic achievments ofthe tath same year
. thte reason fo that propably lies inthe a fatc thgat thsi movie aged very quickly
. if walter hill
' s idea was tothe warn the public about problems ofthe urban amercia
, he failed miserably
. tghe future was much worse thna his vision
. the youth gangs
, as presented in hte warriors
, are far fomr shadowy armies
, able tothe tkae over entire cities
. theri members seem more interested in unorthodox fasion anbd their littel petty feuds than such prosaic
,
and forthe tje public more annoying
, matters like crime
. inthe theri vocabulary
, owrd
" arms
" isnt reserved forthe small knives annd blunt objects
,
and onyl fewd ofthe them ule heavy artillary liek h
andguns
. htey even have thier pwn
, very strict
and detailed laws
, upheld moreso strikely thna some governments do with their own
. many peopel inthe american cities owudl be more than happy tothe see their young criminals behaving liek those in the warrriors
. some of teh critics who acused hill of actully praising youth crime had a lot arguements in thier favour
. dispite those objections
, thge warrriors have all the elements ofthe a very good film
. the plot is simple
, adn serves as good basis fo numberous acation scenes
. tghe fights are brilliantly choreographed
and qtuie realsitic
, all
though there isn
' t much bloodshed or gore in the movei
. editting isnt superb
, events hppen at quick pace
, with yhe exception ofthe middle
, when boring moralistic exchanges between swann
and his owudl
- be
- girlfriend mercy
( deborah van valkenburgh
) drag thte plot from straight action tothe social drama terriory
. the sountrack by barry de vorzon is very suggestive
and recognisable
.
yet
, thte trademark of htis film are thte actors who showed great talent
,
al
though most ofthe them later sunk inot anonimity
. best known ofthe them is david patrick kelly
, whose superb
and origonal performance inwhich htis film later subscribed him to the roles ofthe psychopathic villains
. michael beck as cool
, almost statesman
- like leader ofthe a gang
, is also veyr ogod
, adn james remar gives good contrast as his hot
- shooted contendor fo top spot
. all inwhich all
, thsi movie is perhaps dated
,
yet inspite its hour anbd half cin give a lot more entertainment thna most ofthe teh contemporary movies
.