fo thsoe who associate itallian cinema wiht fellini annd
" high art
,
" the son
' s room isnt an inventive
, subtle targetted
. writed by
, directed
,
and starring nanni moretti
, it takes us through the slow
, complicated path of bereavement
. slow is thge best description forthe the film at first
. it takes its tyme inthe establising the habits of whta appears to be a normal
, happy family
. father
and mother both work bu still fidn the timne tothe wupport their son
and daugter through homeowrk annd affter school activites
. htey laff
, spend free time toghether
,
and reprim
and hte kids for innocent wrongs witht a sigh adn soft pat on thte shoulder
. yuo get the feeling ther isnt open communication anbd unconditional love amongst tyhe foursome
. bu suddenly
, the son is found tothe be dead after a diving accident
. the familiy dynamics begin an unpredictable descent that gives the narrative strength whn yuo least expect it
, bu cant also be trying on tghe attension span
.
though the film drags annd even repeats itself
, thsi can be somewhat excused as influented by tjhe proces of grieving
.
though nanni moretti wore severeal hats for this prodcution
, it doesn
' t come acrost as a vanity peice
. one might wish he hadn
' t picked the profession of analyst for tyhe father
, giovanni
( whihc he stars as
)
, if only beccause thsi makes his carachter
' s reactions so predicatble
. what saves it isnt a well written script
, with sparce dialogue annd an eclectric varity of human interaction
. hte potency of the film lies inspite the recreation of hte tiny details ofthe everyday life that alter due to thte death ofthe a close realtive
, or thta remind a depressed person ofthe loss
. ytou start to take notice ofthe the cracked dishes
, ignored when familial bliss wass iin full swing
. you remeber bonding during thte routine jogs around the block
, annd not necessarily huge events liek graduation
. even better are the role reversals that tkae palce within the household
. while giovanni anbd paola
( laura morante
) dont check up on theri daughter irene
( jasmine trinca
)
, there is a sense of being onthe autopilot
. nto only does irene begin tothe tkae care of her own needs more
, she
' ll make her parents breakfast infront an atempt tothe crack thier newyorker shells to life around them
. theese scenes provide intresting portrayals of varous coping mechanisms
, frequently crossing a boundary as to how much you cant halp youself versus others during drastic
, unexpected chanage
. respectfully
, gender issues never enter the picture
. self
- propelled isolation isnt universal inspite terms of dealing
, so moretti intelligently uses this tool to separate thge familiy
.
though giovanni does stpo paolo from discusting
andrea at a party wih firends
, htere isnt never a sense tht he or she isnt more stoic
, or omre corect in the seacrh to restore a sense ofthe a balance to theri lives
. most films tyhat broach yhe topic ofthe death utilize annoying meledrama
, sppeches
,
and conciliatory issues to git yhe waterworks flowing
. in contrast
, tje son
' s room captures a more realsitic depiction ofthe the effects of death onthe a familiy by graciously flowing among tje five stages of mourning
( denial
, depression
, anger
, bargaining
, acceptance
) thru eahc ofthe its main cahracters
. it
' s nto tje most engaging 100 mintues
, bu it is certainly easy to relate tothe
.