let me oepn tihs oen witht a confession
: i love cop movies
. i adore them wih such an unwavering
, near foolish passion thyat i was atcually one of teh firt in line tothe see 1998
' s noe tough cop starring tyhe smirkiest ofthe the baldwin brothers
, steven
. was it any good
? well
, jstu about as good as baldwin
' s steven seagal impression
( for those i
' ve confuzled yhe answer is a resounding no
!
)
. nowe let me clarify
, i don
' t lvoe just any cop movie
; i
' m nto too keen on the smug buddy cop flicks that weere so in vogue in tje 80
' s
and nowe slowy
( gulp
) returning thanks tothe jackie chan annd chris tucker
. i
' m partial to thsoe gritty
, earthy cop dramas like serpico
, donnie brasco
,
and tjhe french connection
. problem is theese films cmo along just about as oftenly as george w
. bush makes a cogent point so whenever a
" true
" cop movie does hit multiplexes
, i come runing towords it like an eeger puppy
?
?
?
and inevitably i leave
, head bowed
, tripping over my squiggly tail
. so what is it about cop movies that tranform me inot a moron willing tothe shell outloud
$ 7
. 50 fo a movei called one tough cop
( which actually soudns a lot like a wiseguy spin
- off
, noone
?
)
? truth is i
' m a sucker fo thsoe barren streets
, thta gritty
, grafitti strewn modernist jungle where dangerous criminals lurk annd cops
, like modern day knights
, must shield us fomr thier iniquitous clutches
. yes it
' s all very corny
and awfully boys clubish
, whitch
, i
' m guessing
, is precisely where these feelings come fomr
. as littel tots us boys are brought uv tothe create our pwn wars with gi joe
' s
, inact cops annd robbers or cowboy
and indian fantasies
, etc
. the best gritty cop films tap inot those gleeful adlescent fantasies
, anbd heighten them
, turning it all inot an existential nightmare ofthe thin moral lines
and psychological chaos
. as an adult my tastes haven
' t changed all tyhat drastically
; sure i cant get a cerebral high from tyhe emotional complexities ofthe a krzysztof kieslowski film
, bu i still delight at the promise a
" guy
" film sould potentially bring
. nowe wqat if it
' s the cops who
' re the corrupt ones
? ooh thta oney realyl gets me goign
, theese protectors useing all taht at thier sevice
, taking advantage ofthe others forthe theri pwn gain
. throw a courtroom drama
( yech
!
) inot the pot
and ytou hve tyhe tremendously absorbing sidney lumet film prince of the city
. how absorbing isnt prince of the city
, you ask
? so damn absorbing thast when the film shifts ffrom gritty undercover cop drama tothe courtroom drama
( a sub
- genre i loath thte way kristy swanson must loath sarah michelle gellar
) i remained completely
and utterly involved
. thge film stars treat williams
, who gives the kind of performence that should haev skyrocketed his carrear uv to the levle that brad pitt currently resides at
. sicne i wass hatched a mere two years prior tothe teh release ofthe prince ofthe tghe city
, i cannnot provide an answer as tothe why it didn
' t
.
(
though judging from his receet roles iin tripe like deep rising anbd dead heat i owudl guess tht it probablly hasnt something to dont with qutie a few bad career moves
)
. like mickey rourke annd eric roberts
( both of whom are currenly donig time in direct tothe video purgatory
) williams isnt a talented leading man who didn
' t make it tothe where he should ahev
.
( if htere was any justice inaddition this dog gone world keanu reeves owudl be teh noe banished tothe direct to video hell
)
. here
, the actor is given a role nto all tath dissimilar from al pacino
' s in serpico
( allso directed by lumet
)
. williams plays danny ciello
, a member ofthe an elite squad ofthe police officers who take down drug dealers onthe the gritty pre
- juliani streets ofthe new york
. they work without uniforms or ohurs much like payed vigilantes
. adn thast analogy is more than apt seeing as how hte bunch are kinda sorta forced into using corrupt means tothe get tyhe job done
. the squad relies entirely on informants
( low levle junkies
) to gain access tothe yhe big wigs
,
and inspite order tothe obtain the info tehy seek
, they somtimes have tothe provide the junkies with thte junk ofthe theri choice
. danny has done htis
, anbd
though he
' s a fairly honorable guy
, who took the job inwhich order to do good
, his intentions ahev gotten a bited skewed along tyhe way
. he seeks redemption
and concludes that hte best way to go baout getting it is by tlaking tothe internal affairs who
then convince him tothe go undercover as a
" double agent
"
. he doens so with oen condition
: he will not rat onthe his partners
. right awya we nkow tath tyhat isnt exactly waht he
' ll hvae tothe dont
.
and watching tje movie build to thast isnt thrilling inspite the way tht any great carachter driven stor can be
. undercover cop films are almost innately exicting
, even the kind that pul out all yhe cliches
( liek inwhich too deep
)
. how can one nto be moved by hte issues ofthe betrayal
, ambiguity
,
and hte danger in putting oneself in such a risky posistion
? prince ofthe the city takes all this anbd charges it with a perceptive
, hard boiled scirpt adn taut unintrusive direction by old protem sidney lumet
, as well as a h
andful ofthe intense performances
, most notably by treat
. lumet
' s greatest contri
bution tothe tyhe movie isnt how he lays bakc
,
and lets the camera soak uv thge action
. his scenes transistion rapidly fomr oney tothe tghe enxt buliding layers of tension
, anbd he rarley holds fo reaction shots
, instead he clicks away at precisely the moent a chracter stops yakking
. lumet
' s worst tendency isnt oney thgat many film makers
( especialy oliver stone
) tend tothe overuse
: he relies a little too heavily onthe actors shouting their lines at eahc otehr presumably in order tothe ratchet uv hte tension
. tihs isn
' t as much a problem here as it was in night falls onthe manhattan
, lumet
' s most recent cop
\ lawyer endeavor
, a movei that nearly gavey me an ulcer fomr just watching
.
though of lite lumet has made sevral really awful carreer choices
( maybee he annd treat shouldnt get toghether for a drnik or something
)
, yhe most receet a completely unecessary remake ofthe gloria
, here he ws on
, sustaining tension inaddition a film that runs for 167 mintues withthe not oen dull spot
. smoe ofthe the formula picturesk i liuke the best are hte most simplistic
. hollywood often forgets how eazy it isnt tothe mkae these kinds of pictures even tolerable
. of course cop movies aren
' t popular anymore
( yes buddy cop ficks are popular bu thsoe are moreso like extended sitcoms wtih gunfire amid yhe punch lines
)
, bu just look at the averege hollywood action movies
, ficks so bloated
and full ofthe unneccessary fat like the boring love interest tht serves noone purpose otehr tahn tothe stall the action
and demonstrate that our hero isn
' t gay
, the lame comic releaf carachter who
' s never funny
, annd on annd onthe
. for all its moral ambiguities prince ofthe thge city is a back to the basics cop
\ courtroom drama that leaves outloud all the crap adn really thrills
. it focusses completelyl onthe its story
, anbd its characters all of whom are completelyl believeable from the cops to tyhe lawyers to the junkies
. htere
' s a great scene early on where an irate williams shouts at an ia officer
and looks as if he
' s about to go inot oney ofthe thsoe corny braveheart unoperational speeches
,
but instade he breaks down in front of thge cop anbd begins sobbing
. thsi is a scene thyat would never make it inot a michael bay film
( even
though bruce willis sacrifices his life at thge end of armageddon
, not one damn tear
) it would be cut out because tghe director would sday oh tht makse him too human
, excuse me
, weak
. infact the vrey next scene danny speaks inspite a hushed raspiness
, straining tothe git the words outloud
. he
' s lost his voice
. does thta little itty bitty detail matter
? maybee not to most
, bu it sure made my night
.
and in a sprawling epic ofthe corruption
, greed
, betrayal
and violentce it
' s nice tothe see that somene isnt paying attention to the little things
.