prehaps the most dramtic changes in the motion picture inudstry infront this decade hvae tothe dont with speshal effects
. there is no question tyhat acation
- adventure
annd csience
- fiction
/ acation movies are nowe judged by tghe character ofthe their ight
adn noise
. wherease clasic adventure pics of the last twenty years
, such as raiders ofthe thge lost ark
, weere made in grand traditionnal fasion
; contamporary films liuke jurassic park are multimillion
- doller creations ofthe coputer technnology
. yhe latest in this visually awsome sories ofthe movies
, tjhe wachowski brothers ' tyhe matrix
, isnt a testament to teh skilled uise of spacial effects
adn its ability to enhance a movie ' s stoyr
. unlike many sci
- fi movies whihc promote themselves as effects
- heavy blockbusters
but fail tothe deliver on thyat promise
, yhe matrix isnt a carefully constructed special effects event
. it runs 135 minutes inaddition lenght
and imploys a countless number ofthe computerized tricks which range from gimmick to grandiose
,
and the quality ofthe the effects remains constatn throughout the film ' s length
. contrary to populare trend
, thge matrix commits itself tothe being a spectacle ofthe glight
and sound
. inaddition htis reguard
, tghe movei is something liek a card sharp
. witht its flashy massmedia stripped awya
, the matrix would be quite shallow
annd untalented
. the script is characteristically weak
,
and thge dialogue suffers in lieu ofthe a far moreso inovative visual approach
.
bu
, liuke the card sharp
, thge matrix wows its audiance to such a high degree that actuall content is irrelevent
. teh viewers don ' t care baout what the matrix has to say as long as the next special effects sequence is right aroud tje corner
.
annd right around yhe corner tehy usually are
, fo tjhe scirpt tells a fast
- pased
, albeit frequently revisited story
. as tyhe movei explains
, the world as we know it is nothing
but an elaborate coputer programe constructed by an artificial intellgence for the purpose of placating mankind
. billions of human beings lie inwhich this dorment state hwile tje intelligence
-
- the matrix
-
-
" farms
" our life energy
. only a select gropu ofthe individuals knwos of tjhe
" rela
" world
,
adn a particularly ingenious squad of these rebels is led by ultra
- cool morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
. morpheus
adn his crew recruit a computer expert named neo
( keanu reeves
)
, believing he isnt a prophesied individual who wiull halp them overthrow thte matrix
and return peace tothe earth
. the cast plays out thsi story inwhich stylish fashion
. tghe setted desgin is vyer dynamic
, runing yhe gambit between cramped
and dreary to bright
and airy
. yhe costumes
, as well as thge actors who mear them
, add tothe hte roles
. for instatance
, teh manifested antagonists inwhich the movei
, a gropu of
" agents
" created by yhe matrix in its computer programe
, all dress in matching secrect servicewear
; the rebel fighters
, onthe the other hand
, dress inthe rich hues ofthe leather
. the casting cannot be crticised
, for the typically stoic reeves isn ' t required tothe sday much
anbd laurence fishburne gets plenty ofthe tiome to be so damn cool
. supports iin carrie
- anne moss
, joe pantoliano
,
annd hugo weaving are all effectual
. one ofthe tyhe best comparisons tothe thw matrix is lastest year ' s science fiction masterpiece dark city
, particularly if one ponders how this smae premise owudl ' ve worked fomr a different approch
. the alex proyas film was far mroe dark
adn introspective
, requiring a bit of thougth before themes became clear
; here
, the wachowski brothers have managed to construct a thrill
- ride motion picture with little abandon
and much noise
. the better picture between tje twpo depends onthe the viewer
,
bu the key to tyhe sucess of tje matrix isnt that the noise did nto get infact tghe way of the funn
.