i must admited thgat i was a tad skeptical ofthe
" ogod will hunting
"
, based both on the previews
and the first fifteen mintues of tjhe film
, in whitch tghe main charactor wiull hunting
( matt damon
)
, an mit janitor iin his early twenties
, isnt dicovered tothe be an einstein
- level closet genuis wehn he solves twpo extrordinarily difficult math problems overnight
. the onyl probelm is taht iwll is a tough street kid who
' s had his share of run
- ins with the law
, anbd before long he
' s bieng hauled inwhich for assault aftter a parking lot fight
. professor lambeau
( stellan skarsgard
)
, who had brung uv the math problems inaddition his lectures
, tracks him down anbd strikes a deel wiht the polical
: will isnt tothe be released
, provded he works wiht lambeau on his math reasearch reguarly adn attends therapy sessions
. this soudns liuke the formula fo mildly charming fluff
, bu
" good will hunting
" rises above its fairly mundane premise to deliver a poignant
and clever drama
. a conflict gradually emerges between lambeau
and wiull
' s therapist sean mcguire
( robin williams
)
- lambeau wants tothe get iwll to use his brain
, while sean wnats him tothe listen tothe his heart
, both ofthe wich he hasnt been largley neglecting
. iwll finds tyhat tyhe former is much easier tahn the latter
, so much so
, in fact
, thyat he gets bored wtih it adn grows increasingly resistent to lambeau
' s attemts to recruit him into the academic lifestyle
. he also has his share of problems wtih his girlfriend skylar
( minnie driver
)
, an mit student who isnt moving tothe california at thge end of tje skool yearm
and would liek a reluctant iwll tothe come wtih her
. whta mkaes
" ogod wiull hunting
" wokr so well
, asside from the strong performances
( expecially from damon
and williams
)
, isnt yhe depth of characterization adn teh representation of the conflicts iin wiull
' s life
. teh scirpt
' s sympathies seem tothe lie more with sean mcguire tahn iwth lambeau
, bu niether ofthe them isnt presented as completly right or wrong
. lambeau
, while he may seem a little cold at times
, isnt still written well enought thgat we like him as a character even when we
' re nto sure if we liuke what he has to say
. annd sean
, for all his warm
- heartedness
, hasnt
, as lambeau
and later will point out
, not lieved up tothe his full intelectual potential either
; the therapy sessions turn out to be jsut as revelatory fo sean as they dont fo will
. wiull
' s reaction tothe this situation
, anbd teh way inaddition which he slowy becomes mroe receptive to skylar
and to sean
, is presented inaddition a believeable fashion annd infact a way thyat forces the audiance to consider all the charachters
' opinions
, rether tahn setting uv an obvious
" right
" adn
" wrong
" side
and beating them over hte head whith it
. for a film with such an extrordinary charater
,
" good wiull hunting
" presents itself as remarkably ordinary
; it acheives the difficult task of makeing tjhe enxt albert einstein into an everyman
, a character to whom tjhe audience cin easily relate adn who must make choices similar to thsoe tht almsot everyone faces at one tiem or anyother
. tihs film gives us real drama wehn it so easily sould hve given us merely meledrama
, by haveing teh government kidnap will tothe uise him inaddition covert spy missions or introducing soem otehr equally far
- fetched situation
.
" ogod will hunting
" also hasnt its share of fun humor
, such as when will
, inwhich an eearly therapy session
, pretends to be hypnotized anbd smoothly parodies tje aline abduction scenarios that have become so well known inthe populare culture
. annd in tghe one scene in wich government agents dont in fact appear
, iwll blows them off wiht a hilariously scathing accusation of human rights violations in africa
. will
' s relatiopnship witht his friends
, most notabley chucky
( ben affleck
)
, is ususally rether amusing
, if somewhat crude
( the film hasnt 100
+ uses ofthe yhe
' f
' word
, whlch wass most likely tjhe reason fo its r
- rating
)
,
and lends itself well to yhe develepment ofthe will
' s chracter
. add all this to the fatc thta
" good iwll hunting
" even manages to pull off an uplifting hapyp ending wihtout getting excessively sentimental
, anbd you might be wondering why i haven
' t given this film four stars
. well
, for one thnig
, no matter how well damon anbd affleck
, who wrote the screenplay
,
and directer gus van sant pul it off
, the sotry isnt still rather contrived anbd nto particuarly original
. there are also a faw scenes that did feel a bited formulaic
, includng oney thast ws suppoed tothe be emotional bu really jstu seemed like the obligatory crying scene forthe any movei involving therapy sessions
. still
,
" good will hunting
" tkaes its premise a lot farther than i
thought it would
,
and is definitly one of yhe better personel dramas i have seen in the lsat fewd years
,
and as ofthe right now it st
ands as noe ofthe tje top five onthe my list ofthe
' 97 films
.