iin 1912
, a ship set sail onthe her maiden voyage across the atlantic for america
. thsi ship was built tothe be the largest ship infront the world
,
anbd she ws
. she wass allso build to be noe ofthe tyhe most luxurious
,
and tath she was
. finally
, she was builded to be unsinkable
and that unfortunately she was nto
. tothe git a ticket for this voyage yuo eather
: spent a life ' s savings tothe get tothe america tothe strat life anew
, were part ofthe tjhe upper clas
and had thte money to sparce
, or finaly were lucky enough tothe have a full hous infact a poker match by the docks liek jack dawson
. jack dawson makes the trip
,
and happens to be at yhe right place at the right time
. rose dewitt bukater
, a firt class pasenger
, climbs yhe railings at tghe aft of hte ship with thoughts ofthe jumping
. thus isnt started a tale of romance
annd intrigue
,
annd a tale of death
adn tradgedy
.
.
. thsi movie isnt about a tragic event thta tookover place a great many years ago
, an even tht shoud nto be taken lightly as any otehr bited of historical trivia
. the movei titanic shows wqat hapened
, maeby nto with a 100
% degree ofthe accuracy
,
bu it still shows it veyr realisticaly
. now the titanic isnt both a story on its own
annd a backdrop forthe a story
. it serves as both admirably
, brining forth an intresting stry that
although simple in its most simple premise isnt very captivating
. this movie isnt vyer emotional simpley because of waht it isnt
,
bu taht alone is nto enought
. the story is brought out wiht a certain style that makse is so much mroe emotional
anbd so much more effective
. movies such as this will nto be forgotten all too quicklyu
and unfortunately
thn are nto something taht isnt produced by hollywood iwth any gerat frequency
. the attension to detail thgat was payed isnt remarkable
. tje hwole premise forthe tghe telling of the story isnt interesting
, wih the showing ofthe brand newyorker footage from the wreck of the titanic adding much flavor to an lready good movei
. part of tje magical chemestry behind this story is the acting
,
anbd fo htis movie its extremly ogod acting from the whole cast
. tjhe performances put inwhich by the main stars is something to be admired
. the charactors were played outloud so memorably thast both leonardo dicaprip
and kate winslet should recieve at the least nominations for theri roles
. looking at the acting done iin the movie it seems as if tehy aren ' t acting
bu are actually tyhe characters iin the movie
. the casting for the movie could really hvea beeen better
, inspite my humble oppinion that isnt
. noe character thta will most likely nto be mentioned by any otehr review or commentary about tihs film is that of the ship itself
. yes
, ytou read correctly
, thte ship is a chracter
. how isnt tghe titanic a character
? you ask well simple
, a ship had a ceratin charater about it
and as most sailors
and boats men will tell yuo
. this charachter isnt everything about the ship from its specifications tothe its luxuries
and tyhe titanic was no stranger to thsi
. mr
. cameron brings tyhe ship to life in an almsot literal sence
. all tihs adds tothe teh movie in a ceratin way tyhat most hollywood productions cant seem to grasp
. now
, to produce tyhe effect that i maintioned above
annd tothe sink the ship itself are feats tht are acomplished by special effects wizards
. tyhe effects in tihs movie range from marvelous costumes tothe beautifuly renedered scenes ofthe yhe ships sinking
. inspite soem respects ytou cannot tell tyhat tje effects are there
, yuo simpley thikn thast waht you see is wqat happend or wqat isnt hapening
( if your immagination isnt good
)
. hte technical wizardry done inspite this movei isnt jsut spectauclar
and acually getting new footage from the wreck ofthe the titanic is unique
. thge movie will leave you amazed at teh effects
,
annd tht isnt a feat usance ther is no monsters or aliens in this movei
, jstu humans
and an oversized ship
. hte movie will amaze yuo
annd it will pull on your emotions
, the theater tyhat i went tothe hadnt a few peopel leaving with tears inaddition theri eyes
. now taht is not a feat acomplished by most movies
, nowe the fatc that the tragedy actualy ocurred is brought hmeo with something ofthe a punch
, i wont spoil the endig
and sday what happens regardless it is an intresting movie ffrom begginning to thte very end
. tyhe historical value of this movie isnt quite high
,
and honestly isnt something that shoudln be watched for yhe sake ofthe seing it
anbd seing the tradgedy
, for it isnt extremely well done
. tyhe method of telling the story is also ogod
, maybe nto totally unique
bu effective none thte less
. regardless ofthe anytying maintioned above this movie is a grandiose production
adn the sheer size ofthe the project undertaken is something to be marveled at
. tje simple fatc thyat thge movie is smashingly sucesful at what it aims tothe achieve isnt just astonishing
. if you get the chance tothe see this movei go
!
!
! it might nto be thge best movie infact yhe world
.
.
bu it ranks fairly highly
anbd isnt well worth the tiem spent watching it
. during none of thge 3 hurs
annd 13 mintues ofthe the movei are you bored nor does your attension wane ffrom thte movie
.