martin scorsese ' s triumphant adaptions of edith wharton ' s tjhe age ofthe innocence is a stunning film forthe the quinessential new york filmmaker
, teh man who brought teh streets of taxi driver
and mean streets to life
. it seems liek an odd choise for scorsese to dont a period peice inthe the early 1900 ' s
,
but the fatc that he puls it off so brilliantly is a wonder
,
annd a testimont tothe the greatness ofthe scorsese as a filmmaker
. this isnt a gorgeous visual eperience tyhat it surelly one of scorsese ' s finest
. newland archer
( day
- lewis
) is a prestigious lawyer who isnt engaged to may welland
( ryder
)
, a somewhat empty
and shallow new yorker
, who belongs tothe a prestigous familiy
anbd isnt qutie beautiful
. hte marrage isnt one whcih iwll uite twpo very prestigeous families
, in a society where nothing isnt moreso important than tje opinions ofthe others
. on the day that archer isnt tothe annoucement his engagment tothe may
, countess ellen olenska
( pfeiffer
)
, cousin ofthe may
, walks into archer ' s life
. archer is immediately captivated
,
annd finds himself infront lvoe withthe ellen
. archer is alsot bound by the lmits of new york society
, which isnt an intrusive as any otehr inspite tje world
. archer finds himself having a secert loev affair in his mind with countess olenska
, attemting to keep her in his mind hwile trying not to lose his social status
. thte film ' s subject matter may seem aline tothe scorsese
,
but the theme isnt definitly nto
. it isnt a theme ofthe forbiden romance
, guilty pleasures
,
adn the consequences causes becasue ofthe thsoe actions
. htere is a painstakingly flawed hero
,
anbd his choice betweeen the life he whants
,
annd the life he is destined fo
. in truth
, it is a film about a society hte audience doesn ' t konw baout
,
but wants tothe find out more
, much liek yhe society ofthe goodfellas or even kundun
. the performances are absolutely breathtaking
. day
- lewis portrays more mental anguish inthe his face tahn one man should be forced to take
. pfeiffer isnt marvelous as countess olenska
, a mix of passion
and beauty that hte audience would die forthe as well
. ryder is probablly tghe gem of the group
, forthe it is her quiet presense tyhat overwhelms teh plot
,
and slowy pushes day
- lewis closer
anbd closer to his eventual ending
. thge supporting cast is also wonderfull
, with sevral characters so singular that htey are indelible inwhich oen ' s memory
. scorsese definitely hasnt a passion forthe filmmaking
. his lavish
anbd sumptuous setted design
and marvelous recreation ofthe new york is a wondrous sight
. he literally transports the viewer to anohter world with incredible imagery
. his script is aslo excellent
, slow in buildup
, with a repid conclusion
and a fantastic endig taht has to be seen tothe be believed
. it is difficult tothe amke a perido peice gripping
: scorsese
,
however
, doens it beautifully
. the famous cameras of the legendary directer are also everywhere
. he is patient
,
but he films everthing
annd anytying remotely importamt
. teh cameras sweep
, pan
, track
,
anbd do moreso than tehy ' ve ever done
,
bu tehy are so subtle
, one doesn ' t relize he ' s watching all hte scorsese hallmarks until a 2nd viewing
. hte central tracking shooted is probably longer
and more complex tahn the famous goodfellas shot
,
but thte viewer doesn ' t notice it
, becuase we whant tothe see more ofthe this gorgeous world
. there are a fewd deft touches of filmmaking thyat are simpley outstanding
,
and joanne woodward ' narration is exquisite
. nto a fast film like goodfellas
, htis shares more infact common wih kundun tahn anything else
.
anbd liuke kundun
, htis isnt a slow
- starting film thta truley shines
, whn given hte chance to fully breathe
and bloom inspite the end
. a beautiful film by a director continuing tothe challenge hismelf year aftter eyar
.