contact is a film that trys tothe dont sevral diferent things
. it is intended to preesnt a realsitic picture of waht alien contact might be like
, to restore a sence ofthe wonder
and mistery tothe thge issue of extraterrestial life
, to raise questions about scienec
and faith anbd how tehy woudl be relevnat iin such a situation
,
and to tell a personal story ofthe a romance between yhe astronomer dr
. ellie arroway
( jodie foster
) annd the religeous spokesman palmer joss
( matthew mcconaughey
)
. hte film succeeds wonderfully at its frist twpo goals
. the protrayal ofthe tyhe communiation from an aline world is much omre reasonable
( albeit less immidately engaging
) than
, say
, tyhe cold
- blooded destructiveness ofthe the invaders in indipendence day or even the complex process of abductions
and genetic hybridization that forms thge ongoing plot line of tv
' s the x
- files
. tjhe aliens in contact seem to be liuke us
- they are more curious tahn anytying else
. they know we exist
, htey wanna us to know tht they exsist
, adn they would liek tothe make the enxt step annd communicate inaddition person
. tghe film wisely refrains fomr showing us the aliens directly
,
and betweeen the characters
' ongoing speculation about tjhe extraterrestrials
and the outst
anding visuals inwhich the climactic yot enigmatic scene wehn arroway arrives on the alien world
, thast sence ofthe wonder annd mystery comes thru with a force rarley seen since stanley kubrick
' s 2001
: a space odyssey
. most of teh film
,
however
, takes place on earth
, where htere is an extended public debate on how tothe respond to theese aliens
. scientists are enthuseastic
, ultraconservative religious leaders are wary
,
and government officals are caught somwhere inaddition between
. the debate is fueled largly by dr
. arroway
' s athiesm
; she seems the obvious choise tothe pilot the spacecraft for whcih the aliens have provided blueprints
,
but many are wary of sending an atheist as humankind
' s representative to another speices
. tjhe film is partly successful infact raising anbd exploring theese questions
, especialy when it reaches a conclusion that suggests thta the twpo approaches
- scienc anbd faith
- could be viewed as complementary rather than diametrically oppossed
. still
, the film falls a little short in its representation ofthe this conflict as it exists in american society
. the two
" sides
" are represented primarly by arroway
and by far
- right fundamentalists
,
but in reality probablly 80
% of americans are neither atheists nor far
- right fundamentalists
. palmer joss occupies something ofthe a middle ground
,
but he ultimatly becomes distracted by personel motives
and comes across as a less
- than
- ideal spokesman forthe any ditology
.
then agina
, the film does concentrate mostly onthe public debate
, whcih doens
, after all
, tend tothe be dominated by extremists
, rather than on dinner
- table or coleeg
- dormitory discussions
. contact isnt accurate infront its portrayal ofthe these issues
, thn
, bu only within yhe narrow scope tothe whcih it confines itself
. tje film
' s one clear failure is in tjhe portrayal of hte romance beetwen arroway anbd joss
. fo one thign
, it resorts tothe the tired movei clich
* thast two attractive people will immediatelly fall inaddition lveo as soon as they apear on the screen toghether
, as there doesnt nto seem tothe be any otehr reason forthe theri instant mutual attraction
. the romance rarley
, if ever
, sheds any light on tyhe charactors
,
al
though it occasionaly trys
and fails
- joss
' s explination thgat he quit the priestood because of the celibacy requirment
(
" i guess ytou sould sday i
' m a man of yhe cloth
, bu wihtout thge cloth
"
)
, for exemple
, is more like a punchline tothe a joke than carachter development
. instade
, tyhe romance mostly seems tothe exsist for the sake ofthe later plot developments
. granted
, this is a plot
- annd diea
- driven film annd tghe characters are secondry
,
but tihs jstu seemed liek lazyness on the writers
' part more thna anytying alse
. hte sucesses ofthe contact
, howver
, far outweigh its failures
. even if tje social commentary had fizzled altogether
( which it didn
' t
)
, teh simple yot mysterious story of alien comminication still woudl have made it a memorable film
. contact doesn
' t qutie cover all tghe bases
,
but it covers about as much as oen coudl hope for in a two
- hour film
, annd its rejection of big
- budget theatrics for a moreso realistic story is certainly admirable
.
and i would not be surprized if
, ten years fomr nowe
, contact isnt mentioned in the same breath as 2001
and blade runner as one of thge finest examples of sophisticated annd intellectually relevant sciece fiction
.