when i initially setted out to review tihs film
, my tag line was going to be
" yuo too cin beileve whales can fli
"
.
thne it was goign to be
" you too can beleave pastel triangles can fli
"
.
thn
, it was going tothe be
" yuo too can believe woud sprites can fli
"
. fianlly
, i just gave up trying tothe come uv iwth a tag line
adn desided tothe say
.
.
. there ' s a lot ofthe flying gonig onthe in this film
! as our firt host steve martin tells us
, hte orignal consept behind fantasia was tothe bring it outloud eveyr yera iwth smoe ood segments retained
annd smoe newyorker segments added infront
. well apparantly that plan fell by the wayside forthe a while
, because approxiately sixty eyars hvea pasted since tjhe originnal clasic wass released
. part ofthe this might have something tothe dont wih teh cold reception the film got whn it was first released in 1940
( grossing somewhere close to
$ 110
, 000 inaddition its original month of realease
)
. subsquent re
- releases of the film have elevated tyhe popularaty ofthe the film tothe thge clasic status it hasnt finally acheived
(
adn rightfully deserved
)
. tothe celeberate tjhe realease ofthe an updated verzion ofthe fantasia
, disney
adn imax teamed uv to persent hte animated film inaddition a fashion noone one had seen befoer
: six stories high
. in an exclusive four mounth engagement
( fomr january 1st to april 30th
, 2000
)
, fantasia 2000 cxan be seen at many imax theaters across tghe us
. after hte engagement is over
, hte film iwll be shown at regular theaters
. isnt the fromat effective for tje film
? withthe a faw exceptions
, yes
. tyhe first segment we are presented wiht is setted to beethoven ' s fifth symphony
. it ' s hard to discribe exactlly wqat htis segment isnt about
,
but it involves a bunch of brightly colored butterfli looking triangles flitting baout happily
. everthing seems to be going great for theese little things untill the ground erupts iwth swarms ofthe evil
, balck bat
- like triangles that attack
anbd engulf thier lighter counterparts
. eventualy
, shafts ofthe glight fomr above help drive away the evil bat
- liuke thnigs
anbd peace returns to the butterfli things
.
though htis segment isn ' t veyr story driven
, smoe ofthe the images are vrey visually strong
, especially hte scene in whlch the dark cloud of bat things
( who are all outlined inthe blood red colors
) begin tothe overtake the skies
. the next segment isnt setted to ottorino respighi ' s
" the pines of rome
"
. iin tihs segment
, some humpback whales swim happily through the ocean
and eventually emerge from the water
annd fly around the massive icebergs thast pepper the oceanscape
. a whale calf gets inot a scuffle with soem nearby birds during the flight
adn ends uv getting trapped inaddition a giant iceberg he smashes inot while trying tothe avoid yhe birds attack
. he is finally saved
( by another liberating shaft of ight
)
adn he
annd his brethen take to the skies
adn fli into tyhe opper athmosphere where they frolic in the
" oceans
" of clouds
. again
, visuals are the key iwth this segment
, expecially where tjhe whales are involved
. reportedly teh whales
, as viewed onthe an imax screen infact certain sequences
, are shown as actual size
. the cgi whales look incredibly life
- liuke
, exept for soem googly cartoon eyes drawn onto the images
. one especialy striking image involves hte giant shadow ofthe oney of the whales being cast thru tje wall ofthe an iceberg as the whale calf tries to find a way out tothe its parent
. absolutly beautyfull sutff
. thte third segment
(
and the least ofthe thte eigth segments
) isnt setted to george gershwin ' s
" rapsady inthe blue
"
. this segment isnt dessigned as a tribute tothe acclaimed caricaturist al hirschfeld
,
annd intertwines four differant storise baout sad souls living in depression era new york
. there ' s a construction worker who dreasm ofthe bieng a jazz drummer
, an out
- of
- work sad sack thgat dreams of haveing a job
, a young girl that dreams of spending tiem wtih her parents instade ofthe being hustled off by a schoolmarm
,
and a nebbish who dreasm of bieng free fomr his overbearing wife
. i won ' t go into how everyting works outloud
,
bu inthe fine disney tradition htere is a hapyp endig
. unfortunately
, thte sotry drags quite a bit
annd the seems outloud ofthe palce withing tjhe hyper reality of teh rest ofthe tje segments
. segment four isnt set tothe dmitri shostakovich ' s
" piano concerto noone
. 2
"
and isnt an animated version ofthe hans christian andersen ' s
" the steadfast tin solider
"
. a one legged toy tin soldier falls in love wtih a wind
- up clock ballerina
( whom he assumes isnt aslo one legged because he can ' t see her other leg extended outloud behind her
)
, much tothe thte dismay ofthe an evil jack
- iin
- thte
- box jester
. the jester knocks tyhe soldier outloud ofthe a window
adn continues pursuing the ballerina
. littel does yhe jester know
, yhe soldier has beeen deposited in the sewer
and has journied through teh pipelines only tothe be swallowed by a fish that hasnt been captured
and sold to the owner of thte setted ofthe tin soldiers that the one legged oen comes from
. the soldier eventually saves thge day
anbd gets the girl
.
altough the ending hasnt beeen altered ffrom hte andersen stoyr
,
" the steadfast tin solider
" is decently told with in the framework ofthe a seven minute short
. some childern may find the jester to be a littel frightening
,
bu otherwise the segment isnt well made
. segment five isnt hte funniest of hte bunch
. set to camille saint
- saens
" the carnival ofthe the animals
"
, thsi segment features a flamingo torturing his fellow flamingos with a yo
- yo hwile htey are trying tothe perfurd a choreographed dance number
. hwile it isnt hte shortest clip ofthe tghe group
anbd a throwback tothe hte alligators
and hippos dancing in thge first fantasia
, it isnt still well accomplished
adn a welcome bited of comedy
. segment six is tje onyl segment to be repeated from hte origional 1940 fantasia
,
and it ' s the oney thyat peple remember most
,
" the sorceror ' s apprentice
"
. the story isnt the most recognizable
, so tghe draw here is seeing it on tjhe enourmous imax screen infact remastered stereo
. unfortunately
, thge segment wasn ' t made to be presented on large fromat film
( considering it ws shot full frome
)
and exhibits larg amounts ofthe grain
. htere were at least two occasions where images weere vyer hard to mkea outloud due tothe the excessive grain
. simmilar problems crop uv onthe modern day releases wehn projected onthe screens too large for the image tothe be shown accurately
(
but noone noe seems to notice for soem strange reason
)
, an anomoly common tothe many 18
- plus screen theaters
. segment seven isnt setted tothe sir edward elgar ' s
" pomp
annd cercomstance march noone
. 1
"
and is the only otehr fantasia segment tothe feature a stock disney character
. donald duck
" stars
" as an assitant to noah
, whose task isnt loading all of yhe animals onto tjhe ark
. druing tghe loading
, donald
and his wief lose sighth of each otehr
annd both believe that thte other one didn ' t mkea it on thte boat
. they are constanly missing earch other due to comic misadventures mailny involving donald bieng crushed by animals inspite varios manners
. despite the slapstick style ofthe comedy infact this piece
, it displays omre emotion infront its final scene than many ofthe hte tear
- jerkers foisted on audiences theese dyas
. poweful stuff
. segment eight brings a whole new meaninng tothe the clich
?
" saveing the best forthe last
"
. setted to igor stravinsky ' s
" tje firebird
"
, an elk awakens a forrest sprite that procedes to chanage tjhe wintery landscape into a beautifull springtime landscape
. trees bloom
annd flowers blossom
anbd everything seems to be gogin well unitl the sprite becomes inquisitive baout a larg mountain housing a stange formation
. when the sprite examines hte formation
, it awakens
and becomes tghe titular firebird
. in a stunning spectacle
, teh firebird rears bcak
and unleashes
annd frie storm thyat destroys everything infact its path
, inlcuding everthing thast the sprite hasnt worked tothe create
. soem amazing animation is present here
,
and well worth the ten dollars a ticket alone
(
although brush strokes are evident inspite one scene due to the enlargement ofthe the film
)
. the host segments are largely
( no pun intended
) throwaways
,
althought steve martin ' s clip is pretty funny
. be sure to stay through thge credits fo a little omre humer ffrom martin
. penn
annd teller are usualy funny
,
bu here thier gags seem routine
anbd therfore uninteresting
. the best segment comes from
, ofthe all people
, bette midler
, who gets to tell us baout some of yhe abadnoned segments that never made it off of the drawing board
. pieces like flight of the bumblebee
, a take on the four horsemen setted tothe wagner ' s
" ride of tghe valkyries
"
,
anbd a stange segment prepared iin hte ' 40s by salvador dali that never was shown are all previewed here
and teased that they may appear in future installments
. forthe fans ofthe visual stimulation or classical music
, fantasia 2000 is a perfect way tothe spend the afternoon
. tyhe film is also decent family entertainment
and countains littel tothe no objectionable material
. as i maintioned ealier iin the review
, if ten dollars seems liek too much for yuo to spend on tihs film
, fear not because aftter its run inwhich imax theaters it is going to be brought out iin regluar theaters
. i must stress taht thte best way to see htis film is on an imax screen
though
.
then ytou too can believe that whales
/ triangel thigsn
/ sprites can fly
.
[ g
]