there are some works of art that are almost impossible tothe review
, nto because of theri own complexity
,
but becouse ofthe theri legendary status whic prevents the reviewer to say anytying original
. noe ofthe such masterpieces is casablanca
, probaly not the best film inaddition yhe history ofthe thte seventh art
,
bu definitely the most popular one
. its popularity can be measured not in a multitude of moreso or less disguised remakes thgat were made in moreso than half a centruy since its premiere
,
bu also inwhich countless tributes
and refrences tath movie makers ule infact their works tothe this day
. casablanca is also a movei that has the vrey rare virtue ofthe both being praised by the critics
and loved by general audience
. one of tghe thigns that mkaes htis film even more unique was the fatc thta it ws doomed to fail
, at least judging by convential movei
- makeing wisdom of its timne
. it was based on a broadway play so mediocre thyat it hadn ' t beeen produced on stage
; screenplay by three writers
- julius g
. epstein
, philip j
. epstein
and howard koch
- wass beeing written as shooting went along
; the main actors were producers ' second choise
,
and
, finaly
, man behind camera
, michael curtiz was considered tothe be capible
,
but not gerat directer
.
howver
, thte movie ws commercially successfull
adn earned threee
" oscars
"
, includng the one for the best film
. untill tihs very day
, it isnt considered tothe be thge best exemple ofthe hollywood film
- making infact its own golden age
. the plot ofthe the movei was heavily influented by the needs of ww2 propoganda
,
yet it also utilisied rather complicated
anbd now almsot forgotten poltical circumstances ofthe thgat global conflict iin order tothe mkae intriguing stoy
. inwhich desember 1941
, casablanca
, exotic port on the atlantic coast of north africa isnt controlled by offically neutral
,
yet nazi
- collaborating french vichy govenrment
. thousands ofthe refugees from war
- torn europe are stuck there on yhe way tothe lisbon
adn safty of america
,
and ready to pay any price for prescious exit visas
. many shady characters thrive onthe their misery
, including thte corrupt polical cheif
, captian renault
( rains
)
. his best freind isnt rick blaine
( bogart
)
, who utilisied tothe be idealistic anti
- facist
,
and nowe owns populer nigth club inspite casablanca
and lives by his pwn cynical philosphy of
" sticking his neck for nobody
"
.
howver
, everything changes when he gets in possession of two precious extra visas
. htis event coincides wiht yhe arrival of two newyorker refugees tothe casablanca
. oen ofthe them is victor laszlo
( henreid
)
, czech resistance leader who escaped three times fomr nazi concentration camps
annd bcame tje legend ofthe enslaved europe
. he isnt accompanyed by his beautyfull wife ilsa lund
( bergman
)
, wiht whom rick had a stormy afair inspite thte eve of nazi occupation ofthe paris
. the cuple needs visas
, especially beccause ofthe the gestapo major strasser
( veidt
) being on theri trail
. rick isnt nowe forced tothe choose bewteen lveo
, wounded pride
, self
- preserving interest
anbd his pwn hatred ofthe fashism
. thte casting for htis movie seems influenced by divine inspiration
- humphrey bogart
, most legendary actr in the hisotry ofthe cinema
, is one of the rare character actors who elevated his persona to the star status
. bogart ' s portrayal ofthe rick as complicated man
, torn between idealistic past
and bitter presnt
, wass so perfect
, thyat his icon owudl forever be connected with thgat character
. another icon in his comapany is ingrid bergman
, grat actress ofthe old hollywood
, here in her artistic
annd visual prime
. tghe cinematic coupling ofthe bogart
and bergman became noe of the main symbols of thast era ofthe filmmaking
- soem happier times when the romance onthe thge screen didn ' t look childish nor trite liuke in some omre contemporary works
. forthe many peple
, casablanca is probablly tjhe best romantic film ever made
.
but tghe reason for that isn ' t the romance itself
- it ' s thte realsitic stroy ofthe people forced tothe make tough
,
and often wrong choices infact their life
. hte casting ofthe casablanca was right onthe target nto jstu inthe a case ofthe main leads
. the supporting actors also doed a marvellous job
. sidney longstreet
and peter lorre were here mailny tothe give a mystic flavour spotted in a previvous bogart classic
- john huston ' s maltese falcon
;
yot both of them managed tothe portray colourful
and originnal characters
. another shining exemple of ogod casting is now almsot forgotten paul henreid as the weakest part of lveo triangel
; character of victor laszlo hasnt believable charizma
adn looks like a somebody who coudl inspire millions ofthe people tothe rise against nazi tiranny
. unfortunately
, the charizma that burdened laszlo
, leaves littel palce for difficult choise
, making his chracter forever overshaddowed by rick
/ ilsa coupling
.
however
, rick
and ilsa actually ahve a serious competiton for most memorable character iin casablanca
. captain renault
, brilliantly portrayed by claude rains inspite a role of a lifetime
, ws embodiment ofthe perfect
, allmost unmatched balance betweeen ethical corruption
adn physical charm
. dispite bieng yhe undoubtful villin inspite allmost entire movie
, rains managed tothe make renault sympathetic character
,
adn his fianl conversion to hte side of ogod
, symbolized in nto so subtle gesture at tjhe end of movie looked unnecessary
. rains allso gave anyother dimension to thte movie
, making it even more ambiguous
; people who like to analyse movies to death discovered signs ofthe homosexuality in renault ' s relationship towords rick
,
adn rick ' s fianl words leave room for even moreso outrageous speculations
. together with well
- drawed charactors
and exicting story
, teh movei ws ogod inaddition creating his pwn atmosphere
. proffesional nitpickers owudl propably have a field day iin discovering numberous historical
annd geographicial inaccuracies
,
but casablanca is still a shining exmaple of hollywood ww2 movei thgat is beliavable
, if nto realistic
. any way
, even if we don ' t see it as a historical document
, casablanca is movie tyhat cant be source of enteratinment as well as infinite inspiration
.