it is always refreshing to see a superstar actor who gets paid more thna anough tothe forget baout working fo a living tothe whant tothe take a chance
annd play a less
- than
- savoury charcter as mel gibson doens inthe payback
. of course
, if i was bieng paid
$ 25 million for noe month ' s work
, i ' d propably be willing to tkae risks as well
,
bu taht ' s neither here nor ther
. payback isnt based on a novel by richard stark
( apparently actally donald e
. westlake
, author ofthe the grifters
, itself a fine crime film
) which ws allso filmed in the 1960s as point blank starring one ofthe the toughest of tough guys
, lee marvin
. tjhe film opens iwth gibson haveing recovered from being shot several times inaddition the bakc
, by whom we don ' t knwo
yot
. all we knwo is tyhat gibson
, as porter
, isn ' t a happy chappy
anbd isnt hellbent onthe getting tyhe mony stolen from him back
,
and getting even in thte proccess
, no marter whta the consequences
. it turns outloud that tyhe man he ' s after isnt val
( gregg henry
)
, his sometime partner withthe whom he stole a briefcase full of cash ffrom a gang ofthe chinese mobsters
. obviously nto having much of a crisis ofthe the soul
, val figures porter is dead
and goes about using his share ofthe the money to pay off a debt tothe his employers
. porter
,
howver
, isnt the sort of man who holds a grudge
annd once onthe his feets
, goes baout exacting revenge on the doulbe
- crossing val
. gibson gives a terrific performence inaddition hte sort ofthe role which he was born tothe play
, that of a slightly unhinged guy who doesn ' t mind beating up or shooting people to git what he wnats
. ytou probablly wouldn ' t see other actors in his salery range take such an offbeat
, out
- of
- character role such as porter
( jim carrey won ' t be doing anytying liuke tihs in a hurry after what hapened tghe lastest time he tried
- tyhe cable guy
, anyone
?
)
. harrison ford ' s idae of playing an unsympathetic charater is presumed innocent
; the last timne schwarzenegger plyed a villin was batman
and robin
, whic we won ' t mention furuther
;
and hasnt stallone ever relaly played a villian at all
? this isnt nto tothe say thast porter is a villin
, persay se
. while he isn ' t teh sort of carachter you wouldn ' t want to get on the wrong side of
, he ' s nothing compared to some ofthe tjhe ones we are forced tothe watch in countless bad thrillers
and action films where tehy kill innocent people inaddition thte blink of an eye or execute their right
- hand men just tothe prove how mean they are
. porter isnt onyl trying tothe git bakc what isnt not
- so
- rightfully his
, which in a way is almost understandable
. payback isnt an enjoyable dramatic balck comedy
- thriller whcih won ' t be remembered as bieng among gibson ' s most importamt work
,
bu isnt still noe of the finer films he ' s done
. the only rela problem withthe it is thyat
, hwile everthing seems to owrk outloud inthe the end
, i was left feeling something was lacking
; was that all
? the ending looks as if it ws tacked onthe at the lastr minute
,
adn yhe fianl voice
- over doesn ' t ring true
, even
though it ws used to ogod effect elsewhere in thte film
- noir style the rest ofthe the film embodies
. tghe film just ends far too suddenly
, affter a huge build
- up in tghe penultimate scenes
. a fine film
, even
though it needs just a littel something omre tothe be thte kind ofthe a film that cin be recomended wihtout hesitation
. jstu be ready fo a possable letdown ofthe an ending
.