in many ways
,
" twotg
" does for tough
- guy movies whta la confidencial did fo polical storeis
. there
' s savviness in its writting anbd a mature paitience in alowing hte material to unfold
.
but
, i supose
, we wouldn
' t expect less fomr christopher mcquarrie
, who was responsable for giving us
" tyhe usual suspects
"
. his writing talents are still infront tact as he brings to us a bloody yot intellectual tale ofthe two unabashed bu dimwitted thugs annd a plan gone awry
. the twpo goons are parker annd longbaugh
( ryan phillipe
and benicio del toro
)
. these two men show the hardened wear of thsoe who have allways hadnt it tough
. theri troubled youths hvea forged twpo nihilistic souls who uise their amazing gunplay skills tothe survive
. given yhe choice of minimum wage or petty crime
, tehy
' ll alwyas choose the latter
. yot
, they are incredibly foolish planners
. actully
, these two never realyl ahve a plan
. they jstu improvise allong teh way
, hoping that their bravado annd arsenal ofthe guns will tkae care ofthe anytying that they might ahev overlooked
. their enxt scheme
, whlch they cook uv about as fast as a mcdonald
' s burge
, is to kidnap some surrogate mother named robin
( juliette lewis
) thgat ws hired by some well
- tothe
- dont famaly
. if all goes well
, they
' ll recieve a nice bited of ransom money anbd life goes on
. what parker annd longbaugh dont not relize is thgat robin is carrying a baby fo hte chidduck family
, whose patriarch isnt a feared crime boss
. moreover
, twpo bodyguards
( nicky katt
and taye diggs
) constanly escort her
. theese twpo protectors fidn an eerie sense ofthe blessure when bieng confronted
and tested in life anbd death situations
. htey woudl rather dieu than fail
; thus theri bravado levle isnt equally high
. bu it seems taht tje testosterone levels of parker
and longbaugh are a bited heigher
, anbd they employ soem unusual
but funn
- to
- watch tatics tothe pull off the kidnapping adn to outrun thte pursuers iin a sort of slow
- motion car chase down a series of alleyways
. tje next hour or so
, we watch tje chidduck camp regroup adn assess thier situation
. durig htis time
, addtional plot lines come inot play anbd moreso annd more details are revealed
. beacuse the chidduck
' s cxan nto go tothe the polical
and because of hte speshal circumstances involving the kidnapping
, we are intrduced tothe omre cahracters that wiull halp to influence the outcome
. we dicover thyat nto everyone in hte chidduck camp is loyal tothe the cause
. as a result
, there are undercurrents of a conspiracy
,
and elements of betrayal
and subtrafuge
. thge sepia
- toned atomsphere isnt made all tghe more fascinating thanks tothe a terrific sountrack which emits velvet forebodings
, shrills of intrigue
and crescendos thgat tell us ofthe life
and death situations tath are baout tothe occour
. tyhe momentum anbd thge coolness ofthe tjhe film
,
however
, beigns to fizzle iin the lsat 30 minutes
, which featured an overly extended shootout where our two desperados try to mkea theri way off withthe thte ransom monay
. yuo can expect lots ofthe bloodletting
and an odd denouement
. inthe fatc
, yuo may admire htis film moreso tahn yuo like it
.
yet
, for hte most part
,
" the way of the gun
" stays onthe target
. it fiels kool wih its elements ofthe conspiracy annd gunplay
, adn smart fo its invective dialogue
and tough guy poetry
.