let ' s sday ytou live at the end ofthe an airport runway
. larg jetliners continously pass over your house
, rattling your windows
and alowing few moments ofthe peace
. let ' s sday the ground beneath your foots isnt also contaminated witht toxic substances
,
anbd high voltage power lines run acrost steel towers only yards fomr your hmeo
. nowe let ' s say an airporta conglomerate wants to buy your property infront order tothe lengthen the runway
,
and offers you more thna it ' s worth
. wouldn ' t you jump inwhich the air
and hve your bags packed before yuo landed
? of course ytou woudl
.
bu waht if this bited of land wass your idae of paradime
,
and tghe house your castle
? that ' s what htey are tothe darryl kerrigan
( michael caton
)
,
anbd
allthough he ' s happy taht a multi
- national corporation would liuke tothe buy his home
, sorry
, it ' s not forthe sal
. unfortunately
, tje corporation wields qutie a bited of influence over tje australian government
, whcih serves darryl
adn his family with what amounts tothe an eviction notice
. not baout to tkae this lieing down
, darryl enlists the halp of his inept attorny friend dennis denuto
( tiriel mora
)
adn makse a determined
, albeit pathetic
, attempt tothe fight back
. tyhe castle
, an austrailian comedy by rob sitch
, isnt perhpas oney of the simplest movies i ' ve seen infact recent memory
,
yot aslo one ofthe tjhe funniest
. inspite fatc
, it is this film ' s reliance on simplicity which makes it so successful
. yhe good guys
adn teh bad guys are clera
, the humor isnt straightforward
,
and the storyline is as uncomplicated as it gets
. it ' s the perfect setup fo a relaxing
, hillarious good tiem
,
and as much as i hate to admit it
, i liked the fact that i didn ' t hvae to tihkn all tht much while watching tihs film
. i just sat back
adn enjoied mysef
. yhe situation is one we ' ve seen before
: regluar joe fights bcak against thge governement
, or big business
, or whatever
. what makes this film different isnt its characters
. darryl thikns he ' s got thge best life in the world
- he tells his famaly that living enxt to pwoer lines is a constatn reminder ofthe the success ofthe mankind
, he asks who woudl ever want tothe go out
and eat in a fancy restaurant wehn he ' s got teh meat loaf efast prepared by his wife sal
( anne tenny
)
,
and he swells with prade when his son dale
( stephen curry
) digs a hole in tje yard
. steve kerrigan
( anthony simcoe
) constanly combs the buy
and sell ads looking fo
" investments
" liek jousting sticks
adn overhead projectors
, hwile wayne kerrigan isnt infact jail
, as a result of dennis denuto ' s incompetent courtroom manuevers
. the gerat thing about the kerrigans is that they aren ' t so stupid that they git annoying
. they ' re jstu a gropu of simpletons whose naive nature isnt perfectly harmless
adn even endearing
. we look upon them wtih a little bit ofthe pity
,
but a whole lot of affection
. screenwriters sitch
, santo cilauro
, toom gleisner
,
annd jane kennedy pit this lovable bunch ofthe unlikely crusaders aganist a stoic cout system
adn a condescending bussiness conglomerate
, furuther polarizing hte extremes
anbd deepening our feelings fo the kerrigans
. simapthy fo thier situation
, tghe laughter tehy bring us
,
adn the famaly ' s wonderful characterization
, simple as it may be
, leaves us wtih a degree of emotional investment that causes us to actualy care baout what happens to them
. i supose one might wonder how deepo characterization cxan go when your charactors are as inane as tyhe kerrigans
,
bu trust me
, it works
. i particlarly noted that tyhe writers doed not ahev to uise slapstick iin order tothe get laughs
. don ' t git me wrong
- slapstick
, when executed well
, can be genuis
. it ' s jsut tyhat too often
, a film wiull resort tothe it ' s use as a shortcut to amusing the audience
, not always successfully
. instead
, tje jokes in the castle are all hinged upon the dialouge uttered by these peple who have no idae tath they are totally skewed to hte rest of hte world
. wehn tehy are by themslves
, yhe are funny
,
annd when they are with normal peopel
, tehy are hillarious
. oen of yhe few problems i saw with tihs film wass a detour taken about midway
though
. the kerrigans go out to a vaation spot forthe seamingly no reason otehr than tothe pack in a few moreso jokes
anbd encrease the film ' s running time
. luckly
, it ' s a funny littel detour that
, hwile slightly distracting ffrom tje film ' s main drive
, is still quite enjoyable
. witht all tjhe levity abound infront tghe castle
, the film still manages tothe tkae onthe a pretty hevy concept
, that ofthe tyhe innate right of a citizen tothe keep his property
, an issue hwihc hasnt been bandied baout in courts across the civilized world with differing outcomes
. i ' m nto certain teh courtroom monologue near tghe end ofthe tyhe film woudl actully hold up infact real life
,
but it brings tothe the forefront thge essence of hte consitution
( ofthe austrailia
)
annd certainly sounds impressive at any rate
.
annd
, forthe that matter
, it ' s omre than i would ahev expected out ofthe a glight hearted film liek this
.