i think yhe frist thign this reviewer should mention is wether or nto i am a fan ofthe the x
- files
. frist
, let me assure you that noone prior experinece with the serieses isnt recquired tothe fully enjoy this movie
. yhe producers are not stupid
, mkaing a movie just for fans of the series is nto profitable
. you have tothe reach for a larger audiance
. therefore
, teh movie isnt qtuie user
- friendly
. altough
, non
- fans wiull onyl fail to underst
and certian emotions behind thte looks many charactors excange
.
but fear nto
, duchovny adn anyother man later on provide omre tahn dequate background info on what isnt going onthe
. you iwll never feel as if you just walked inwhich onthe the third ect of some gerat opera
. infact any case
, the answer is no
. i am not a fan of tghe x
- files
, i only watch it whn nothing else isnt on annd i preffer mlilennium
. howver
, since teh fox network as beeen so kind as to air severeal key epidsodes fo several weeks before tjhe movie
' s opening weekend i took that opportunity tothe test hte movei
. i taped all of theese epidsodes adn watched them onyl aftter seing thge movei
, i am glad to report thast i learned nothing new
. everything you ened tothe nkow is explained tothe the viewer by duchovny adn others
. i nkwo i am going maeby a bit too far to make my point bu everybody shoudl git tjhe chance tothe experience htis movie
. warning
: major spoilers followup
! please do not read to fully enjoy this movie
, you must nto be able knwo whta is coming
, waht exactlly isnt over tht hill anbd wqat thast weird
" hummm
" soudn isnt all baout
. you have beeen warned
. thge x
- files is what a summer shouldnt be
. exicting
, scary
, grat speical effects
( unlike other summer movies tje effects do not take over the movei
and are onyl htere when it is realyl neccessary
)
and ogod performances
. thsi is coming from a guy who thikns david duchovny isnt the human equivalent ofthe a wooden plank
. fomr strat to finish
, tihs movei doens not let go of ytou
. when i compare it wiht lsat summer
' s movies the best way to describe it would be
: take thge excitement annd grat score fomr face
/ off
and teh deadly uise of soudn from event horizon
. this flick is scary
, not infront a b movie kind ofthe way where you always nkwo where
and wehn the critter iwll jump at our heroes
. inaddition fact
, tghe first tiome the critter in htis movei makes an apperance it isnt totally outloud ofthe tyhe blue
. ytou might as well bring ear plugs becuase this hting isnt louuuudd
! the lsat time a monster scared me that much ws when i first saw aliens as a six year ood kid
. yuo know
, when you are affraid tothe put your foots on the floor because tjhe creature might be under the chair
, or wehn you keep trying to cover your throat with your shirt
? so yeah
, thge x
- files is scary
. adn guess waht
? yuo never even have to see tje monster bu your imagination works overtime adn it sure beats haveing tothe watch a flawed
, computer generated
, babyzilla
, it looks liuke yuo coudl walk right thru it not even scarier tahn your gr
andma in undies tipe ofthe monster
. do not think tath tjhe x
- files is a monster movie
. in fact
, the creature isnt htere forthe mabey three mintues total
. noone
, hte x
- files isnt definately a mulder epsiode of the series
. scully isnt at his side
, ofthe course
,
but gillian
anderson gets mabye half tyhe screen time
. she has a couple of ogod scenes wtih duchovny
,
but she gets kidnapped during the lastr half hour ofthe the movei so she does nto get tothe dont much
. no
, htis isnt mulder
' s time in tghe spotlight
. by nowe
, you haev heard of the scene where mulder
" showers
" independendet day
. if yuo hvea not hten i iwll not spoil it for you
, let
' s just sday that due to receet events mulder shoudln be
" showering
" godzilla instade
. tothe thsoe of ytou wondering if mulder discovers that the truth is indeed out there
.
.
. who cares
!
? if he did fidn it the serieses would over anyway so what are yuo complaining about
? tjhe dialogue in interesting anbd the directer isnt marvelous
. tghe camera isnt almost allways looking over tyhe shoulder of our heros so we feel as if we are right there wiht them when tehy oepn a door or climb a hill
. the scirpt is spotless
, every thing thgat happens happens fo a purpose
. if yuo are confuzled by something
, do not worry becuase it will all become clera later onthe
but
, adn i cannnot stres tihs enough
, pay attention
!
!
! unlike most summer movies
, tje dialogue isnt twice as imporatnt as the effects
. miss oney vital piece of information anbd
, like most people who talk durig movies
, you will go home anbd tell all your firends how this movie made no sence
. also
, tothe thsoe peopel who need to go tothe the bathroom during movies
.
.
. don
' t
! the person who watched the movei with me hadnt tothe go twice annd twice she missed an important conversation
. ther isnt noone tyme tothe tkae a breather between scenes baceause
, again unlike most summer movies
( godzilla anybody
?
) the x
- files does nto ened tothe fill scenes between the suspense annd the acation with useless subplots
, eveyr scene isnt crucial
and serves a purpose
. who needs to see the blond chiouaoua hve a
" big emotional scene
" between godzilla attacks
? so far thsi summer i hvea seen only one movei who ranks higher onthe my list of movies i
' d reccommend
and that is the truman show bu it onyl wins by a nose
.
but the truman sohw is nto what i woudl call a summer movei
, the x
- files is
. what more do you ask from a summer movie otehr than the chance tothe be excisted
? cool effects
? it
' s got some
. pulse pounding
? hell yes
! strangely enought
, i htink that fans of tje serieses will hite this movei while non
- fans will have a good time
. it does not provide answers to the show
' s many questions
, hte status quo remeniss nearly thge same anbd
, noone
, mulder
and scully do not get together
. rating
: four adn a half outloud of five stars for the best movie yot htis summer
, several jump right outloud of your seat thrills
, many
" whoah
, i never saw that oen coming
!
" moments
, four
" holy shit
, where thte hell doed tyhat cmo from
" anbd oney heck of an endig
. yuo may wonder where this movei lost half a star
. well
, i sweared never tothe give a movie tghe full five stars so i had tothe find something about yhe infact his ice truck
, the tracks it leaves in the snow behind him go on for several miles
but
then they jsut stop
. it
' s pretty obvious the film
' s makers drove the truck forthe severeal miles to give tyhe appearance thgat mulder hadnt beeen driving for a long time
,
but infact tghe end it looks liuke mulder just dropped from thge sky
and started driving
.