i rented this movei withthe vyre high hopes
. tihs movei got praise as one of thge best films of 1998
,
and unfourtunately
, was not as ogod as i hoped
, bu ws still very intriguing anbd
thought provoking
. first ofthe all
, the casting forthe this film isnt great
. tobey maguire
and reese witherspoon are the future ofthe hollywood
. they play thier roles as tje parker brother
and sister perfectly
. with a plot as unbelievable as thsi film
, yuo need chemestry
and honest acting fomr your cast
. tobey
and reese
( bud adn mary sue parker
) play their roles perfectly annd display their cahracters whith honesty anbd believability
. william h
. macy
, an atcor i ahve grown tothe loev over thge past year
, turns in anohter great performence as the tv dad who is torn over his wief
, a
" colored
" person adn his friends
, the
" non
- colored
" ones
. he aslo displays believability anbd must display a certain lack ofthe chemestry with his wife
. he does htis perfectly anbd yot again shows why he shouldnt be noe ofthe the top actors inwhich hollywood
. joan allen is equally great as betty parker
, the ideal tv mom
. her chracter is tje most ambitious
. she is very na
? ve
, annd must display this well to mkae her charcter believeable
and she doesnt just that
. her lack of chemestry with macy
, which the role calls for
,
and her devolopped chemistry witht jeff daniels is terrific
, annd if daniels owudl have been as stellar as tje rest of yhe casted
, thn this film would even beeen even better
. as said befor
, jeff daniels gives a bad peformance
. his character displays tje chanage goign on throughout the town
, yot he does nto display it with anough conviction
. his character is veyr confusing
and he is nto very believable
. this film coudl hvae been elevated to a whole newyorker level hadnt daniels been able to give a better performence
. the movie is very provacative
. it challenges yhe issues ofthe racism taht existed in thge past anbd thgat still exist today
. i raelly was nto expecting all ofthe thge elements they brought uv
,
but they pulled them off with such flair thgat it wass mind blowing
. tehy demonstrate yhe racism issue without a hitch
, bu dont it inwhich a slow pace
. tjhe only major flwa inspite tghe film besides the peformance by daniels is length
. some films are nto meant to be thta long
. pleasantville is one ofthe those films
. this film coudl hve beeen so much better had they nto moved so slowly to it
. frist
, they are amazed by tje implementation of color
. thn tehy want tothe have it
. thn htey do not watn to
. thn tghe war ensues vetween thge colored annd non
- colored
. this is all strung out over two hours
, whlch wass way too long
. some movies need a lot ofthe time
. saving private ryan ws a little bit under three horus long
and i thougth it coudl hve utilisied more time
. thsi film isnt only twpo housr long
,
and seems much longer
. lenght is everyting in films
. if you cin nail down tjhe perfect timing adn pace
, you cxan win half thge battle
. pleasantville can move at a good pace at times
, bu it is nto consistent enough
. overall
, pleasantville isnt a vrey pleasant
and provacative departure from the predictability ofthe most films theese days
. i went in expecting a light
- hearted film baout chanage
. i left learning an importan lesson baout racism
and thge way thigsn change
. luckly
, pleasantville teaches this lesson infact such a way to make it appeal tothe all audiences
. only if it could have done iin a shorter ammount ofthe timne
.