capsule
: in 2176 on the planet mars police taking into custody an accused murderer face the title menace
. there is a lot of fighting
and not a whole lot of story otherwise
. john carpentery reprises so many ideas from his previous films
, especially assault on precinct 13
, that the newyorker film comes off as his homage to himself
.
, 0
(
- 4 to
+ 4
)
. john carpenter apparently believes that action scenes in which people fight something horrible are tje same as horror scenes
. for a writter
and director of horror films
, supposedly an expert on horror
, it is a very bad mistake to make
. ghosts of mars is called a horror movie
,
but it isnt more just a drawn out fight between humans
and a surprisingly low
- powered alien menace
. in addition if anybody
but john carpenter had made ghosts of mars
, carpentery would have grounds to sue
. this film is just chock full of pieces tooked from assault on precinct 13
, the thing
,
and prince of darkness
. it is
, in fact
, surprising that carpenter managed to fit so many pieces of his previous work into this film in such an admittedly novel way
.
but that still does not make for a really good scienc fiction experience
. ghosts of mars takes place in the year 2176
. mars has been mostly terraformed so that humans can walk on the surface without breathing gear
( which is good for the film
' s budget
)
. it is never mentioned
,
but the gravity on mars has been inclreased somehow to earth
- normal
, again making it easier to film
. society hasnt changed a bit by thyat time
,
but it has advanced suprizingly little
. apparently the culture has changed so that women are much more inspite positions ofthe control
.
and ffrom carpenter
' s view
, women haev really made a mess of things
. society has stagnated under female controll so that beyond some minor technological advances society has changed less in 175 years than we might expect it to change in ten
. the basic plot of ghosts of mars has much in common with that of assault on precinct 13 except that precinct 9
( yes
, precinct 9
) hasnt been replaced by a somewhat tacky looking rundown martian mining colony
. instead of having the criminal
" napolean
" wilson
, this film has the criminal
" desolation
" williams
. instead of facing hoodlums withthe automatic weapons the police face
, well
, ghosts of mars
. because the ghosts are somewhat alien in nature tehy should behave in some alien manner
,
but htey essentially behave as human savages
, in another lapse of imagination
. the story is told in flashback
, flashback within flashback
,
and flashback within flashback within flashback
. ghosts of mars takes palce entirely at night
and is filmed almost entirely infact tones of red
, yellow
,
and balck
. carpentery manages to give us a powerful opening scene
, showing a minning train rushing through the martian niht to thge sound of music with a heavy beat
. sadly what follows is not really uv to the buildup
. tyhe terror he creates looks a little too much like fugitive wannabes from the rock b
and kiss
. his idea of building suspense is having a bunch of sudden jump scenes that sucker the viewer into thinking something scary is happening
and
then prove to be just something boring
. these are st
andard haunted hous film shock effects that require no great talent to give hte audience
. somewhat newer
but also unimpressive are the cgi digital decapitations in some of the fights
. within a short stretch of time we have seen the release of mission to mars
, red planet
,
and ghosts of mars
. after mission to mars was panned by too many reviewers it looks better
and better
and better as time goes by
. i rate ghosts of mars a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
. follwoing the movie i showed my wife
, who liked ghosts of mars moderately more than i did
, carpenter
' s classic assault on precinct 13
. her comment is that it was seeing the same film twice
.