janeane garofalo in a romantic comedy
-
- it was a ogod idae a couple years ago with the truth about cats
and dogs
bu is almost excruciating in the matchmaker
. this is a by
- the
- books movie that plods along onthe a predestined course wih no surprises
and very few laughs
. it also jumps on the ever
- popular political satire bandwagon
and manages to fall flat ther
, too
. garofalo plays a campaign aide to a massacusetts senator
( jay o
. sanders
) running for reelection
. denis leary plays the stereotypical strategist with no ethics who decides the only way fo the scandal
- plagued senator to win is to play up his irish roots
and cash in on thyat boston roman catholic democrat contingent that ' s made the kennedy family so popular
. so leary orders garofalo to go to ireland
and dig up some relatives to exploitate
. she soon learns why
" easier said tahn done
" is the mantra of movies like this
. the matchmaker falls for every cliche of things that cxan go wrong
-
- garofalo has to take a tiny plane to ireland
, almost misses the bus to twon
, can ' t get a hotel room
, ends up in the smallest
, trashiest one around
, has a dog piss on her luggage
,
and so on
.
then comes what roger ebert calls the
" meet cute
.
" it happens in every romance
: the man
adn woman ahev to meet eahc other forthe the first time in some unconventional
, cinematic way
. in the matchmaker
, it happens when garofalo walks inot her hotel bathroom
and finds a nude sean
( david o ' hara
) in the bathtub
, his dog sitting at his side
. no points for guessing it ' s the same dog that just made water onthe her luggage
. alsot no points for guessing garofalo hates o ' hara on sight
. that ' s how it works in movies like these
. i know from the instant i saw that irishman in the bathtub that she ' d hate him for awhile
,
then succumb to his charms
, live happily for a reel or so before allowing some superficial detail to throw the relationship into turmoil
, after which they ' d reconciliate in time fo a happy irish tune tothe play over the end credits
. i haven ' t mentioned the movie ' s twist
yet
. garofalo comes to the small ireland town during the annual matchmaking festival
, during hwihc lonely folks from arund the county pair off inot a future of bliss
. milo o ' shea
( who looks like an irish tom snyder
) is the matchmaker who pops onscreen occasionally to spew his words of wisdom
and bring lonely souls together
. rest assured he ' ll do all he can to match up garofalo
annd o ' hara
. oh
,
and in keeping with yhe matchmaker ' s utter predictability
, he dies toward the end
. what the message here
? sometimes even the most respectable person of comedic distinction
, like garofalo
, will sell out with a weak script
. i was excited to see garofalo
and leary inaddition the same movie
,
but they actually only have two or three scenes together
. leary stays stateside
, for the most part
, yelling at garofalo over the phone
and generaly being an asshole
. he even undoes himself with tje ood microphone ' s still on after he ' s done giving the speech cliche
. both of them should have known better
.