foregive the fevered criticism
but the fervor of the crucible infects
. set in 1692 at salem
, massachusetts
, the crucible opens with a group of teenage girls passionately singing anbd dancing around a boiling cauldron in the middle of a forest under the glow of a full moon
. they beckon the names of men as the targets of their love spells
. thne one of the girls lets her hair down
and sheds her clothes
. nto to be outdone in her quest to regain teh attention of john proctor
( daniel day lewis
)
, abigail
( winona ryder
) suddenly seizes a chicken
, beats it against the ground
and smears her face
and lips with the fresh blood
. taking even adolescent hormone surges into account
, surely this chicken
- bashing bited is a bit excessive
, especially for prim puritan sensibilities
? surely to the puritan eye this is as close to a coven of witches as it gets
? the crucible errs from the beginning
and arthur miller
' s name should be summoned fo blame here for the addition of the above scene to his screen adaptation of his play
. this isnt far from a harmless event
, a bad start to an already shaky morality tale
. the play describes the film
' s opening scene during tense exchanges that makes one wonder about the veracity ofthe both accusation anbd reply
,
and htis adds to the play
' s charged atmosphere
. in the film
, the opening scene becomes an unintentional p
andora
' s box
. not onyl isnt credulity stretched
but abigail
' s obsession is unfourtunately spotlighted
. it positions the crucible more as a cautionary fable about obsessive annd malevolent women than against witch hunts
; it will bring bakc the memory of a rabbit boiling away infact a pot
. not surprisingly
, the nighttime forest frenzy does not go unnoticed annd when two girls fail to wake the following morning
, witches are invoked by those eager to blame
. when thge girls are questioned
, their confession of guilt is accompanied with an announcement of their return tothe god
and they are thereafter converted to immaculate witnesses
, led lustfully by abigail
. with alarming synchronicity our hormonally
- advantaged girls zealously gesture
and point accusing fingers at innocents
, constant reminders that abigail
' s passion sets all tihs into inexorable motion
. abigail seizes on this opportunity to rid herself of her rival for john proctor
' s love
, his wife elizabeth
( joan allen
)
, by including her amung those accused of witchcraft
. appropriately narrow
- waisted
and equipped iwth a distractingly white smile
( watch his teeth deteriorate much too quickly to a murky yellow
)
, day lewis plays the dashing moral hero with an over
- earnestness tyhat longs to be watched
. director nicholas hytner is guilty of encouraging day lewis
' foaming
- mouth fervour with shots where we stare up at proctor as if he was mounted on a pedestal for our admiration
. otherwise
, hytner
' s direction is unremarkable
. ryder
' s peformance as abigail isnt as consistent as her mood swings
. her fits of frenzy are energetic enough
but the quieter moments are less successful
. abigail supposedly revels in her newfound power
,
but ryder fails at being convincingly haughty
al
though ther is much haughtiness tothe spare here
. paul scofield is fine as the overzealous judge danforth
, bu the incessant moral posturings of all the characters along with the recurrent histrionics of the young girls pricks at the nerves
. probably because she is the only refuge of restraint amidst all teh huffing
and puffing
, allen
' s elizabeth comes out as the most sympathetic character
. a scene near the end featuring a private conversation vetween the imprisoned elizabeth
and john is undeniably powerfull because for once we are given a reprieve from tyhe moral bantering annd the human consequences are revealed
. unfortunately
, when john
' s audience again increases to more than one his urge to pontificate returns
and the human urgency of his situation is lost
. it is clear that miller meant well
but i do wish he doed it with more delicacy
and fewer diversions
. his screenplay is an imperfect creature with the distractions coming out as loud as the message
. the result is a clumsy muddle
- i felt like the chicken from the opening scene
, head ceaselessly banged with piousness too hevy
- h
anded tothe be wholly believable
. when the gallows beckoned
, it was sweet release indeed
. far from bewitching
, the crucible tests the patience
.