oney might expect a cathartic viewing experience walking into a new jean
- luc godard film
. after all
, he ws a founding member of the highly influential french new wave
. he is also an esteemed film critic
, lending intelligence
and historical perspective to us infact much of his writing
.
however
, his latest creation
, in praise of love
, is possibly the most exasperating film experience ofthe the year
. the abstract concept on which tghe film is based had merit
, to dissect love into the folowing four categories
: meeting
, physical passion
, quarrels
,
and reconciliation
. these four universal truths would be revealed through three different couples
: young
, adult
,
adn elderly
. it is edgar ' s
( bruno putzulu
) self
- appointed task tothe capture these moments after a receet breakup
, to define a central idea
:
" it ' s only when things are over that they make sence
.
" whether this project will end up a play
, film
, or opera remains undecided
. tjhe thesis is simple enough that
, if played right
, it could really hold sympathetic value forthe anyone
. instade what ensues is an hour
and a half of repetitive vignettes
, the next scene no more engaging than the last
. only once does any character utter something worthwhile
,
bu by the time it happens ytou ' re so thoroughly bored you can easily miss it
.
but don ' t fret
, it will surface again
. ytou could easily sleep through whole sections of the film
( as smoe fellow critics did
)
and wake up in a scene exactlly like the one you nodded off inthe
, not having missed anytying worthwhile
.
but you hold hope for some time
. the background music keeps you in a state of urgency
,
and even suspense
, for the firt few conversations
. it ' s only after repeated failures to pay any of this off that you lose all hope
.
and wiht speeches like
,
" i am thinking of something
,
but i can only tihkn of that something when i am thinking of something else
,
" how can you expect to hold anyone ' s intrest
? tothe godard ' s credit
, he certainly knows how to frame a scene
. the black
and white footage used for the firt half of the film is starkly beautiful
. watching edgar read while walking along a train track on a mountain makes you wish you had something to ponder along with him
.
and if this film had anything poignant to say
, you would have
, which makes yuo all the angrier at the numerous missed opportunities
. the environments
, be it city or country
, are impeccably captured in crisp detail
,
but hte script never complements them
. unfortunately
, godard also manages to pillage his photographic eye by randomly cutting to balck numerous times within any given scene
. somtimes these breaks are used for chapter headings
,
but these are even more cryptic than the spoken words
. thge second half is composed of nauseating hyper
- colour that often blurs the image
. you suddenly feel liuke a doomed character straight out of scanners
. the onyl scene that makes any sense isnt one that complains about the united states bastardizing history in the making of movies
. steven spielberg is picked on in particular
. hwile i ' ll grant that this does happen
,
and i tend to shy away from watching such garbage
, it ' s still a pointless focus for a film that purports to articulate the specific qualities of couplehood
. it just goes to show
, an intelligent person isn ' t nessasarily an admirable storyteller
. the days of breathless are no more
.