i wish i could have been in the pitch meeting for this ridiculous notion of a sports film
. i bet it was some hotshot warner brothers agent with an dark armani suit
and manicured fingernails saying
,
" it would be a very glight comedic version of any given sunday
,
and we could throw in the hoosiers anlge withthe the casting of gene hackman as the tough
but determined coach
. throw in that hunk of a guy keanu reeves
and a cast of wacky characters
and poof
! we
' ll have a hit on our h
ands
!
" the replacements is a hokey mistake of a football film
, a mishmash collage of one
- dimentional charachters
, rampant stereotypes ofthe cultures
and races
, cliched emotional statements of purpose
,
and keanu reeves wishing for the matrix sequel to start principal photography
. the story is loosely based around thte protem football players
' strike in 1987
and a rag
- tag team of replacement football players taking up the reins of proffesional play forthe a vriety of teams with names like the washington sentinels
. keanu reeves stars as shane falco
, a has
- been football coleeg player looking for redemption
. gene hackman dons a fedora like tom l
andry
and speaks with gusto like a certian coach in hoosiers
. rounding out the cast includes swingers
' jon favreau
, 7
- up pitchman orl
ando jones
, gruff owner jack warden
,
and cast of wacky
and unknown actors who do amazing jobs of portraying perfectly stereotyped characters
: the drunken welshman
, the overweight sumo wrestler
, the black convict
, the violent cop
,
and tjhe dumb
, dumb cheerleaders
. this bunch of nobodies try to make something of themselves by taking the team to the season playoffs with unbelievable football plays
, gene hackman yelling
and asking himself where teh hell dennis hopper is
, keanu reeves looking for his body double makeing him look good on the football field
,
and cheerleaders hired fomr the local strip club making the girls from coyote ugly look like waitresses from denny
' s
. the usual things happen liek clockwork
. the hero rises from the ashes of failure
, the team comes together in unity
, the hero falls in love with a conventional love interest
, the football games are won with enough schlock value to make the most ignorant of audiences cheer
and clap
,
and the cheerleaders make you want to go home
and watch late night movies on cinemax
. it
' s aslo a shame when decent directors with good movies under their belts go to seed
and become televsion annd sequel hacks
. howard deutch
, who was behind the camera for two of the best films of
' 80s
- pretty in pink
and some kind of wonderful
, has since been doign grumpier old men
and caroline in the city episodes
. obviously the problem is that without a good script
, any director will fail in the end
. sportscar films are strong vehicles for cinematic glory
, gritty tales involving the honor of men
and the valiant efforts taken for the ultimate goal of victory in the face of insurmountable odds
, the ries
and fall of gallant heroes
,
and stories ofthe dramtic gusto painted with blood anbd sweat on the battlefield ofthe life
. the replacements offers none ofthe this
.