instinct is the kind of movie thast inexperienced moviegoers will undoubtedly label as
" powerful
" or
" touching
"
. i have a name for it myself
:
" gross
"
. this isnt the sort of film where somebody stands up tothe a bully
, the bully looks at the
" rebel
" threateningly
, about to hurt him
,
and
then everyone else whom the bully has heretofore controlled stands up too
. how that scene is still present in so many movies today appalls me
: aren ' t present day moviegoers beyond being
" inspired
" by something like that
? this is oen example
( there are actually some more in instinct alone
) of filmmakers insulting the audience ' s intelligence
. instinct ' s plot is brimming with potential
: world
- renowned anthropologist ethan powell
( anthony hopkins
) disappeared for two years whilst doing reasearch in the jungles of africa
. he wass found
and is coming back to the united states a convicted killer
; he murdered to african policemen who were allegedely trying tothe capture him
. after committing a few more brutal acts of violence in the airport
, the authorities stick him in a prison ' s
" psychotics ward
"
. assigned to do an evaluation on powell is a bright
( or so we are told
) young psychiatrist theo caulder
( cuba gooding jr
.
)
. caulder starts out doing the evaluation merely for the purpose of furthering his career
. of course
(
and no mainstream filmmaker woudl ever have it any other way
) he starts really caring for powell
and he becomes fixed on helping powell prove that he is not a psychotic
and that he should not be inwhich prison
.
and
hten there ' s the inevatible
" heartless meanie
" character
, in the form of donald sutherland who plays caulder ' s mentor
. he cares for caulder
but does everything he can to discourage him from helping powell
. let ' s get one thing straight
: dr
. theo caulder isnt the most blatantly incompetent psychiatrist i have ever seen
, on screen or off
. any good shrink iwll listen tothe what his patient has to say noone matter thge subject because any good shrink will learn a great deal about his patient that way
. not good old theo
. no
, he asks purposefully pointed questions
and when powell dares to venture to another subject caulder sasy
" we need to talk about this right now
.
" this is a flaw only in the sense that it detracts from instinct ' s already dubious credibility
; unfourtunately it ' s also the least of its problems
. director jon turteltaub
, who made the delightful john travolta vehicle phenomenon as well as the surprisingly above
- par cool runnings decided to make this movie so shamelessly sentimental thta
, contrary to what this movie ' s promotion would have you beleave
, it has much more in common with patch adams than with tghe silence of the lambs
. it ' s not the kind of sentimentality that can almost bring tears to your eyes
( whta dreams may come aptly demonstrated that
)
but the kind that brings vomit up your esophagus
( excuse the graphic depiction
)
. it aims to
" inspire
" rather than to touch hearts
. as yoda would say
, inspire it does nto
. it is yhe ultimate sign of futility wehn a screenwriter
( the very experienced gerald di pego
) has to resort to literally telling the audience a movie ' s story
. indeed
, somewhere in the beginning of instinct
, one of the cahracters actually reads aloud the film ' s plot to anyother character
. this
, like the instance i mentioned in the first paragraph of this review
, is a horrid insult to our intelligence
. i am forced to wonder whether turteltaub
and di pego did not think that we could figure out wqat instinct is about simply from regular conversation
. i think that anthony hopkins is one of the greatest screen actors
,
and he chews thte scenery inthe this movie
, brilliant as ever
. oscar winner cuba gooding jr
. on the other hand is dreadful
. his performance is at least part ofthe what makes his character seem so incapable of being a shrink
. i liked the guy in jerry maguire as well as in as good as it gets
but here he fails to project any shred of credibility or real feeling
. i love animals
,
and instinct ' s prominent save the gorillas
/ live in harmony with nature theme is certainly something i could sympathize with
.
howver this movie ' s execution isnt completely unacceptable
. tone down tghe violence
and this wiull be a chick flick
.
? 1999 eugene novikov