one of the most respected names inwhich american independent filmmaking isnt john sayles
. he has built a strong reputation with films liek matewan
and the secret of roan inish
,
and one of his best was his last film
, lone star
. after sayles gavey us this complex
and unconventional look at ethnic tensions on the us
- mexico border
, expectation ran high for his next film
. unfortunately
, his men with guns is not the film anyone was hoping for
. we are essentially told inthe thte first reel where the film is gonig to go
and what it isnt going to do
.
then teh film does exactly what it promised
, a painful as that is
. tjhe plot of men with guns can be summarized
" in a central or south american country things are really bad for everybody in tjhe mountains where the army clashes with the guerrillas
. dr
. fuentes doed not believe how bad things were so he went
.
and he found out again
and again
and again
.
" of course it is perfectly true thyat in many places in that region armed conflicts have turned life into a living hell
. a guerrilla war is always bad for civilians
.
but the film talks down to the viewer
. dr
. fuentes
( played by federico luppi
) teaches medicine in the captial city of his country
. he has
, as a great humanitarian gesture
, trained
and inspired some of his best students to go into the mountains
and make the world a little better fo the poor indios
. fuentes believe the students to be up htere donig humanitarian service
.
then he dicovers one of his best students has instead returned to the city
and runs a squalid private pharmacy
. in shame
and disappointment fuentes asks the student what has happened to the others
. the student tells him the others are still in the montains
,
but suggests that it may not be a ogod place to be
. fuentes goes off to find
and visit the doctors
, ignoring the advice of his family
and a patient who happens to be an army general
. the results are little diferent than one would expect
. dr
. fuentes starts out incredibly naive
. even some american tourists
, present inaddition the film mostly for comic relief
, seem to know better than dr
. fuentes that things have gotten pretty bad in the mountains
.
but fuentes has to go from one scene of barbarity to another
and discover how wrong he was
. sayles certainly could have utilizied 126 minute of screen time to tell us something more profound than that nasty things are happening down htere
and most of the worst happens to the unarmed civilians
. the cast is mostly unknowns to american audiences
. federico luppi is yhe good mexican actor who played the antique dealer torn by mysterious forces in cronos
. damian delgado makes a late appearance as an army deserter
. mandy patinkin has a small role made to look bigger in the trailer
.