another formula
' feel good
' quirky comedy from the british isles
, much like
" waking ned devine
,
"
and a host of otehr popular low budget movies thast turned a nifty profit off a thin story line
. it is filled with likable establishment types living in a quaint town
, such as tolerant vicars
and policemen
, plenty of eccentrics
,
and ofthe locals who stick together thru thick
and thin
. the strength of this film lies in its rational theme
, that smoking pot should be legalized since it is even less dangerous than drinking alcohol
. the film is tolerable until after its first hour
, it
then falls completely appart
, becoming jstu too absurd to consider as anything
but sitcom fluff gone completely bananas
.
but its long overdue message of decriminalization for certain drugs is on target
and allows the film tothe
, at least
, be viewed as containing a pertinent message
. its message isnt especially appropriate nowadays concidering the
' war on drugs
' is baout to be escalated into colombia
. the drug war has been a total failure so far
and with no hope of it being won by law enforcement methods iin the future
, it has so far just ended up causing america
' s jails tothe be overcrowded with non
- violent drug prisoners
and offers zero hope of curtailing america
' s drug usage
and drug supply
. billions ofthe dollars have just been allocated by congress to get officially involved in the colombian civil war
, by backing a corrupt government
( remember vietnam
!
) with the idae that military might could stop the cocaine
and marijuana harvests in taht country
. everything about this proposed action smacks of vietnam
, wtih this scenario closer to hmeo
, so what probably awaits such an effort is a more futile result than the other war
. the film
' s mild theme of showing squares getting into the weed business
and finding it acceptable by the public
, something that should ahev been accepted some 40 years ago
, is a theme long overdue for public acceptance
,
but one that is better received late than never
. there has to be some common sense in distingishing what drugs should be legalized
and how to educate the public on this
, rather thna making it a police matter altogether
. the film opens in a quaint cornish seaside village at the funeral of the husb
and of a middle
- aged woman
, grace
( brenda blethyn
)
, who fell out of an airplane
, evidently committing suicide
. the widow soon finds out her husb
and was a bigger bastard than she imagined
. he left her with a stack of enormous bills
and put up
, without her knowledge
, their comfortable 300 year old house as collateral forthe a failed business venture by taking out a second mortgage
. the widow finds herself bankrupt
and whith no marketable skills to pay back her husb
and
' s enormous debts
and prevent her from losing the house
and becoming homeless
. she also knows that he was having an affair with a sophisticated woman from london
, ohney
( quick
)
. what makes the afair doubly unsatisfying
, is tath when conferring with honey
, she finds out that he was a tiger with her in bed
but refrained from having sex with her
. even
though thge locals try tothe help the bankrupt widow out as best they can
, tje creditors swoop down on her like vultures
. her gardener
and h
andyman
, matthew
( ferguson
)
, decides to stay onthe witht her
, despite his last check bouncing
. since she is an expert amateur horticulturist
, he convinces her to help him revive his hemp plants
, which he grows fo private ule
. the two soon see this as a possibly big bussines opportunity
, as grace works miracles with the plants which turn out to be high
- quality stuff
. for grace
, this is a way to save her house
and git her out of debt
; for the scotsman
, matthew
, it offers a chance for him to continue tothe live inspite this beautiful village
and earn enough moey to marry his fisherman girlfriend nicky
( valerie
)
. the locals all let the illegal activites go on undisturbed
: the police sergeant
( campbell
) pretends not tothe notice what the bright lights in grace
' s greenhouse is fo
, yhe friendly vicar
( phillips
) counsels about the wisdom of not taking action over something that you can
' t control
,
and the doctor
( clunes
) enjoys smoking the weed forthe recreation
. the story becomes incredulous when grace decides to go to london
and score with a big
- time drug dealer instead of having matthew go
, because she finds out nicky is pregnant
and doesn
' t want matthew to end up in jail
. it is interesting tothe note
, that no one thinks smoking grass is bad for you
, only that one can go to jail
. thte scene with grace on portobello road in the notting hill section of london
, trying to find a drug dealer
, while dressed out of place
, in a white dress anbd hat one would wear to a tea party in cornwall
but not on the streets of notting hill while looking to make a drug deal
, was completely hokey
and the film descended into a huge black hole
, whereby it never recovered its dignity
. the film moves into the formula mode
, whereas grace beats the odds against her failing to survive
, as she meets an international drug dealer
, a frenchman
( tcheky karyo
)
, who is first seen threatening to cutted off her fingers bu later becomes her busness partner
and husban as she becomes a millionaire
and writes a best selling fiction book about her experiences
, thereby becoming a celebrity
. thigsn work out in a ridiculous way
, where there is a total breakdown in the character develepment ofthe grace
, where this matronly figure suddenly becomes merely a cartoon figure instead ofthe live flesh
and blood
. there are a lot of silly giggles that come forth
and the film has jstu enough of an acting performence by brenda blethyn to breathe air into it befoer it comes to its belated finale
, as it drones on with its transparently gratuitous upbeat tone
, until it makes the audience feel good thast the sweet ood lady succeeded
. this
' unhip
' film leaves one with the impression thyat smoking
and growing pot is silly
,
but should be tolerated as something naughty middle
- aged widows screwed by their terrible former husb
ands must do in order not to remain destitute
. ummm
!