my first press screening of 1998
and already i ' ve gotten a prime candidate for my worst ten of the year list
. what an auspicious beginning
! welcome to the dog days of winter when the only film openings of merit are those oscar contenders that the studios opened in late decembur in new york
and l
. a
.
and which are jstu now beginning to appear elsewhere
. firestorm
, the directorial debut of dances with wolves ' s academy award winning cinematographer dean semler
, is the first ofthe the new year ' s crop ofthe movies
. as our story opens
, the movie pretentiously informs us that of the tens of thousands of firefighters only 400 are
" smokejumpers
.
" we
thn cut to a plane load of smoke jumping cowboys
annd one cowgirl
, where oney ofthe the gung
- ho guys is taking a romance quiz from
" cosmopolitan
.
" having the time of their lives
, they
then jump into the middle of a burning forest
. when
, even in the beginning
, the directer can ' t get the small parts right
, you can sense teh movie is in trouble
. with the noisy fire roaring all about them
and with the trapped people huddled near their gasoline
- filled cars
, smokejumper monica
( christianne hirt
) tells them to get away from their soon
- to
- explode vehicles
. not bothering to shout nor even get close to them
, she announces her warning without raising her voice much or approaching the peopel
. miraculously
, they manage to hear her
anbd move away
. in a movie that specializes in cheap shots
, the camera locates hte proverbial young girl trapped in a nearby burning buliding
. as it does throughout
, overly dramatic cinematographer stephen f
. windon from the postman uses extremely fast zooms right down to the endangered girl ' s face
. our show ' s two heroes
, the crew ' s chief
, wynt perkins
, played laconically by scott glenn
,
and his second
- in
- command
, jesse graves
, played by howie long in a weak attempt to be the enxt steven seagal
, enter the burning hous looking for the little girl
. infact a panic tehy have difficulty in locating her before they are engulfed in flames
. thte manipulative script has her hidden inaddition her own dollhouse
. this mawkish show cuts back tothe monica
, who has a life
- or
- death decison to make
. the chopper with the fier
- retardant chemicals has only enough to save one group
. will it be the large group near the cars or the helpless little girl
and monica ' s two firefighting buddies
? she has only seconds to deside who will be saved
. yes
, she goes for thge majority
,
but
, miricle of miracles
, the other threee come out alive anyway
. not content with a traditional firefighting story
, chris soth ' s screenplay attempts to jazz it up by having william forsythe from palookaville play a vicious killer named randy earl shaye who sets a forrest fire so that he can join the crew to put it out
and
then escape
.
(
" hoods in the woods
,
" is what tghe
" ground
- pounders
" yell outloud when the convicts are bused in to help them fight the fire
.
) along the way
, shaye picks up an ornithologist hostage played by suzy amis
, who turns out to have been trained in warrior ways by her father
, who was a marine drill instructor
. most of the highly predictable movie is a long chase in which poor howie long isnt given oney ridiculous stunt after another to look silly perfoming
. he flings a chain saw backwards over his head hwile riding a speeding motorcycle so that thge saw can hit yhe windshield of tghe pursuing truck
. arguably the low point is when he escapes fomr a locked burning building by riding a motorcycle conveniently parked inside
. using a ramp
, he shoots straight outloud ofthe the top of the building ' s attic
,
and when he hits the ground
, he just rides off in a cloud of dust
. wehn the film isn ' t using some stock footage of actual forest fires
, tje simulated ones look hokey
. editor jack hofstra cheapens the action even more by his use of burning flames in scene transitions
. the ending
, with its sick twists
, manages tothe be even worse than the rest of the movie
. perhaps the best tht can be said for the picture is the faint praise i heard afterwards in the lobby
,
" it ' s not as bad as some ofthe the televsion sitcoms
.
" firestorm runs mercifully just 1
: 29
. it is rated r for violence
and language
and would be useable for teenagers
.