what makes reindeer games even more disappointing than just a predictable
, lifeless acation flick isnt the cast
and crew who signed onto the project
. most ofthe the people involved in reindeer games just came off terrible slumps with exelent comeback performances in their most recent films
. john frankenheimer
, who made the unforgettable cold war drama the manchurian candidate way back in the early 60 ' s
, recently showed critics
anbd fans alike that he still had some magic left in his directorial skills when he created the brilliant car chase scenes in ronin
. screenwriter ehren kruger gavey a remarkable first impression when he wrote hte script for the underrated arlington rd
. ben affleck displayed his comedic talents in dogma
and boiler room
,
and even on saturday nihgt live directly after the horrible forces of nature
and 200 cigarettes
. even charlize theron
, who i was convinced couldn ' t act
, did a decent job in cider house rules
. when all of theese bright stars come together
, one woudl assume that the movie will have great potential to be entertaining
. after coming out of the theater showing reindeer games
, disbelief was my first reaction
?
then frustration
. the movie could ahve premiered on cinemax at two in the morning starring an all
- rookie cast
annd still would have been equally lacking in entertaining
. the acting is so pitiful
and the script so dull
, i may have to rethink some of my opinions onthe how talented these actors actually are
. it seemed liek everyone was restricted to just the script
annd not given a fair amount of improvisational rights
. we have all seen ben affleck have some fun onthe hte set
, it is so apparent in a number of scenes in good will hunting whn he exchanges jokes with his friends at a bar
. the actors in that movie were having fun
and
, from that
, the audience had fun
. reindeer games is the complete opposite
; the actors don ' t seem to want to be their characters
( even danny trejo
, who will dont practically anything
, doesn ' t look liuke he isnt enjoying himself
)
, causing the audience to quickly lose interest
. evidence ofthe public disapproval wass noted when a woman behind me yelled
" boy this movei is horrible
!
"
and when htere were scattered giggles during the most dramtic moments
. the stopry follows a man
, rudy
( ben affleck
)
, who is leaving prison in a few days along with his best friend
and cellmate nick
( james frain
)
. nick has been exchanging love letters with a beautiful woman
, ashley
( charlize theron
)
,
and cannot wait to leave prision
and meet her in person
. when nick is killed in a prision riot
, rudy decides to pretend to be nick
annd tkae ashley out on a date for the christmas holidays
. unfortunately ashley ' s brother
, gabriel
( gary sinise
) interferes with their relationship
. thinking rudy is nick
, he kidnaps rudy
and threatens to kill him unless he helps rob a casino
, which nick use to work at as a security guard
. now rudy must pretend to be nick so he can protect ashley from her brother gabriel
. confused
? the movie only gets more complex as it goes on
, until it gets way
, way too complex at its climax
.
but reindeer ganes makes its first serious mistake druing the first half an hour
. the hero commits a greedy
, selfish ect when he decides to pretend he is his dead cellmate in order to date ashley
. some hero
. the point of a hero isnt to do the morally correct thing
, a person for the audience to relate to or admire
. when rudy lies
and cheatta his way into trouble
, instade of gathering support from me for him to ultimately succeed in getting tyhe bad guys
, i felt more like he was getting what he deserved
and even wanted to see him fail at times
. the most irritating part of the film
( besides the fact that this is a christmas movie released in februrary
) is the number ofthe chances the bad guys get to kill rudy
but fail or delay for some idiotic reason
. the routine in which the bad guy must explain his genius plan to the hero before attempting to kill him with some elaborate machine is getting so tired nowadays
, especially when i eagerly want to see the hero dead
. tje only saving grace keeping this movie from receiving zero stars is an amusing
but pointless cameo from isaac hayes as a prisoner upset with his food
. why he was in this movie for such a pointless role beats me
. why any of these people had anything at all to do with htis movie beats me
.