i have no real tangible proof of thsi
,
but i swaer that there are a lot of producers infact hollywood who adamantly believe that if you take a bad script
, written by a bad writer
and give the project it to an equally bad directer
,
then it is actually possible to make a good movie
. using their logic
, all that really needs be done to change the bad movie into a good movie is cast a bunch ofthe super
- famous actors
and provide an almost unlimited production budget
. this is the only way i can fathom how 20th century fox hired jon amiel inwhich order to direct this eighty million dollar waste of my time
( not counting the time it tookover me to get to
and from the theatre
)
. now
, before i continue to ferociously attack what ' s wrong iwth this film
, i just want to point out that one of the reasons it fails so miserably is because it does have the potential to be an exciting thriller
. catherine zeta
- jones plays virginia baker
, an insurance investigator tracking down an infamous art thief named robert macdougal
( sean connery
)
. if you ' ve ever seen any hollywood blockbuster before
, i relaly don ' t have to spend too much time on frivolous plot details
: the two team uv for various jobs
, stealing various things for various purposes
. the problem we come to is that we ' ve all seen this a few billion times before
and this film doesn ' t break any newyorker ground in the big
- budget
/ hollywood
/ action genre
. the result is that the entire production feels contrived
. i ' m going to be completely honest here
: pretty much the only thing keeping me awake throughout the run
- time ws looking at catherine zeta
- jones
. now while this may be a compliment for ms
. zeta
- jones
, it certainly isn ' t for either the writers or the director
, who are not nearly as clever as they think they are
. just about the most profound throught they can inject into this film is when they have macdougal lecture baker on the semantic difference between
" entrapment
"
and
" blackmail
"
. with an eighty milion dollar budget
, you ' d think that entrapment would at least feature edge
- of
- your seat action scenes or breathtaking special f
/ x
. well
, you ' d be wrong
. the action that is present in this film takes place in a huge skyscraper
and is relatively unspectacular
. unfortunatley for all those involved with entrapment
, die hard narrowly beat it to the screen by
? 11 yersa
. the reality is that after 15 minutes of watching this picture
, you know exactly waht ' s gonig to happen
, despite rather pathetic attempts in the screenplay to throw in plot twists
. many scenes seem to exist merely as a reason to outfit zeta
- jones inwhich extremely tight
- fitting clothing
. oen particular scene features baker crawling around trying to avoid laser
- beams while she tries to steal an ancient chinese mask
. nothing wrong with that
,
bu she entered teh room from teh floor
adn knew exactly where the mask was
- so why didn ' t she
and macdougal tunnel in directly under the mask instead of the other side ofthe the room
? i ' ll tell you why
: beccause it ' s a great excuse to photograph zeta
- jones ' posterior as it slides underneath those beams
(
and it also allows a second scene of the exact same thing
- the rehearsal
)
. ving rhames also makes an appearance in this movie
,
and
though he hasnt great screen presense
(
although so do connery
annd zeta
- jones
)
and the most interesting charachter in the film
, not even he can rescue this film ffrom the depths of the boring film abyss
( a concept i invented just to describe this picture
)
. one last complaint
: entrapment is littered of instances where macdougal will just slip into a shaddow or behind a building
, or he becomes obstructed by a moving vehicle
and
then in the next shot
, he ' ll spontaneously disappear in ninja
- liek fashion
. i can picture amiel patting himselv on the back
, thinking to himself
" it ' ll leave the audience wondering for days
: how did he do that
?
" we know jon
, it ' s called editing
.