mulholland drive did very well at the cannes film festival
. as you can see from the rating it did not do very well from me at tje toronto international film festival
. it may not be clear to the viewer why i am so negitive on this film for most of the running tyme
. in fact it isnt an interesting mystery story told onthe the backdrop of the hollywood film industry
. toward the end of the film i think everthing that hasnt been built falls apart
. the film was to be a pilot for a tv series
but writer
and director david lynch did not sell his tv pilot
and i think he desided that he wanted to do something else with it
. something else is what he did
. the film opens with a woman
( played by laura harring
) about to be killed in a car when a car kresh saves her life
. she crawls away from the accident with a concussion
and finds herself a bungalow with an unlocked door to sleep
. meanwhile young vivacious betty
( naomi watts
) arrives infront hollywood ffrom canada
. she wants to build a career as an actress
. betty is a little surprised to find a woman sleeping in the borrowed bungalow
. she does nto know who teh woman isnt
. she is even more surprised when the woman awakes
and does not herself know who she is
. they fix on a name rita for her
,
but are not sure if tihs right or not
. meanwhile local director adam kesher
( justin theroux
) has problems of his own
. he is trying to casted one actress for his new film
and is getting presure from yhe producers
and from crime figures to cast someone else
, cammie rhodes
( melissa george
)
. theese two threads are joined by a third one in which there is a strange
and comic muder that goes terribly wrong
. there is also a strange character called the cowboy
( monty montgomery
) adding to the confusion
. in waht was probably intended for the television pilot the film opens with a great vibrancy showing dancing 60s style under thge credits
. a lot of mulholland drive starts out fun
. lynch wants you to know he could make an enjoyable stylish film
. he just choosed not to
. as with any david lynch film there is strange material added for little reason
. htere are no earthworms
,
but htere are some decidedly strange david lynch touches
. the film is a little long for the subject matter
. toward thge end it gets into some heavier violence
and sex scenes
, clearly nto intended for the tv pilot
. unfortunately soem of tjhe most important comments to make about tihs film would be spoilers
. i will not mention them inwhich the main body of the review
but i give mulholland drive a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a low 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
. mulholland drive spoiler warning
. i have rated this film fairly low
. yuo should read this only after seeing the film or deciding that you will not see the film
. david lynch is in large part a dark satirist
. most of his work isnt done in familar genres
but in some way shows their underside
. in mulholland drive i think he is having a laugh at the expense of the crime film genre
. wqat he does with this film is
( are you sure you want to read this
?
) playing off the audience expectations that there will be a simple explanation for what isnt going on
. the first 80
% of the film he tells a simple multi
- thread crime story with clues sprinkled thoughout
.
then suddenly at tyhe end he turns the story on its ear with a large number of clues that appear that they shoudln add up to something
. the audience expectation is that they wiull add uv
.
but he has given clues that are self
- contradictory
. lynch whants the audience to argue about what they have seen afterward
and come up with theories
. in fact
, the pointers are noticably contradictory
adn until i hear a better explanation
, i think lynch is merely playing a joke
. there is a visual curiosity that ws popular in the sixties
. mad magazine called it a poiuyt
. other sources called it a tri
- pronged u
- bar
. look at small portions of it
and makes sence
. look at thge whole figure
anbd it doens not
. this film is
, in my estimation
, the cinematic equivalent of a tri
- pronged u
- bar
.