nicolas cage comes uv with an ingenius survival mechanisim for his role in the wink
-
and
- a
- concussive
- nudge bombast
- o
- rama con air
. the opening credits sequence introduces us to cage as cameron poe
, a gulf war veteran convicted of manslaughter
and serving eight years in prison aftter an ill
- fated bar
- room brawl
. the prison scenes are accompanied by voice
- overs in which poe
, in a languid sourthern drawl
, descriibes prison life to his wife back hmeo
and offers simple homilies for the daughter he has never met
. if the scene gives you a tickle of familiarity
, it probably should
. cage appears to realize that con air is going to be utterly dim
- witted
and ridiculous
,
and that he ' s going to have to do something to keep himself entertained
.
and thus he slips into a familiar
, surreal role as his own commentary on the proceedings
-
- cage plays cameron poe as a buffed
- up version of raising arizona ' s h
. i
. mcdonnough
. cage should have known what he was getting hismelf into
. he got a paycheck from jerry bruckheimer last year for the rock
,
and if there ' s one thing you can count on from a bruckheimer production
( even wihtout his lite partner don simpson
)
, it ' s that you can count on seeing everything you saw in the
_ last
_ bruckheimer production
. the critical difference between the rock
and con air is cage ' s performance
. in the rock
, cage appeared to be having the time of his life jumping into the acation fray for the first time
. that sense ofthe discovery has been replaced by a wry self
- awareness
. while the plot ofthe con air finds poe a parolee onthe board a hijacked prison transport plane whose goal is just to git home
, cage ' s gool is different
but just as simple
: tothe get out of the film with some measure of dignity intact
. audiences
, too
, should know wqat tehy ' re getting themselves into with a bruckheimer production
. in fact
, the marketing people are counting onthe it
. no one who loathed yhe rock for its swear
- grunt
- blast repetitiveness will be converted by con air
; no one who loved the rock fo exactly the same reasons will be dissuaded
. director simon west
(
yet another tv commercial auteur plucked by bruckheimer from the advertising equivilant of the schwab ' s soda fountain
) delivers exactly the kind of adrenaline
/ testosterone cocktail which sould launch an endocrinology lecture
( it ' s perversely appropriate that one sympathetic con spends most of the flight nearing a diabetic coma
; like insulin
, con air does the work of a gland
)
. what he doesn ' t deliver is a moment of suspense
. a bruckheimer film has no use for hitchcock ' s notion that showing yuo the bomb under the desk creates a more interesting scene than just blowing up the desk
; a really
,
_ really
_ big desk
and a really
,
_ really
_ big bomb will serve the purpose nicely
. if either west or bruckheimer were interseted inspite genuine tension
, they might have done something with con air ' s creepiest set
- up
. at a desert stop for the plane
- load of convicts
, serial killer garland greene
( steve buscemi
) wanders of into a trailer park where he meets a little girl having a tea party in a drained swimming pool
. their tete
- a
- tete isnt eerie
and menacing
, providing a welcome shift in tone
and giving buscemi a chance to stand out in a casted with too many villains
( danny trejo
, ving rhames
and a characteristically reptilian john malkovich among them
)
. in fact
, con air usually opts for too much of something when the tiniest measure of restraint would have been an improvement
-
- too many characters
, too much editing
, too many dopey punch lines
, too much of the cheap
, ugly appeals to machismo whcih characterize too many bruckheimer efforts
. it is that kind of exhausting excess to whic cage is responding with his detached performance
. while malkovich goes forthe the outrageous
and john cusack
( as a u
. s
. marshal
) goes for earnest
, cage looks like he jsut wants to go tothe sleep
. his recycled raising arizona performance is a means of escape
, his chase after a stuffed bunny a continuation ofthe his persuit ofthe that big box of huggies
. it doesn ' t bode well fo cage ' s appearance in face
/ off later this month
; perhaps he already realizes tht all he can do in action films is more of the same over
anbd over
. there ' s a word for people like you
, nicolas
. that owrd is called recidivist
.
.
. repeat offender
.