last summer
, a feature
- length verzion of the avengers hit theaters to tyhe tune of a unannomus critical panning
. based on the famous 60 ' s television show
, the film was an enormous box
- office flop
and a huge disappointment for warner bros
. a year later
, the studio isnt up to their old tricks again
, with the unnecessary revival of the robert conrad program the wild
, wild west
.
but it sounded promising
: the same tag
- team of star will smith
and director barry sonnenfeld
, who both contributed to make men in black such a financial success
, is at the reins again
.
and co
- star kevin kline is attached to the project
, as well as a substantial budget to spice up the special effects
. i mean
, what could possibly go wrong
? the answer is just about everything
. wild wild west is a cinematic abomination
- a film taht was so entirely pointless to begin with that it is never given a proper chance to get out of thte gate
. there are a lot of fancy special effects
,
and a handful of distinguished actors who try desparately to tunnel through the inane plot
annd make a lasting impression
.
but the script isnt so deliriously uneven
, the entire movie so off course
, that no human being or technical achievement has a chance to salvage it
. at square one
, we have a bizarre case of casting
. will smith plays james west
, a renegade cowboy who was originally played by white actor robert conrad in the tv series
. my guess regarding the casting of african
- american smith is a simple one
: the actor
+ a cozy summertime release
= big bucks for all those involved
. smith is a very talented performer who usually brings swift assurance to any comic relief material
,
but this is not an ideal role for him
. he ' s too much of a joker
. i heard that initial casting included george clooney in the lead role
,
and frankly
, that sounds a lot more plausible
. what makes matters worse is that smith goes through the role with such self
- assurance in his eyes
; you can practically sense his contentment with the fact taht he knows wild wild west will be a huge hit at the summer box office
. the plot involves west
and cross
- dressing government agent artemus gordon
( kevin kline
)
, who are assigned by the presidetn to recover a group of kidnapped scientists
. the trail leads to the diabolical dr
. arliss loveless
( kenneth branagh
)
, a man with noone lower body who speaks in a dry
, witty southern accent
. loveless has taken the country ' s top technical minds hostage so that they cant assist in his deranged plan of total government controll
, using lethal superweapons tothe distroy entire towns
. one such weapon is an 80
- foot mechanical tarantula
, bearing eight spindly legs ofthe thrashing metal
and spewing enormous fireballs left
and right
. the visual effects that bring this metallic bug to life are spectacular
, seamlessly blending computer
- generated imagery with the western surroundings
. unfortunately
, all of these effects seem so detached from the story
,
and can do little to support the film ' s plot deficiencies
, which are undoubtedly the main problem
. wild wild west is a running gag that never truly works
. most of the jokes
, usually care of smith
, die onthe arrival
. if it ' s one thing that sould possibly be the saving grace
, it ' s the performances
,
and even they are mostly off
- kilter
and poorly delivered
. kline is admirable
,
but he has little to do
but invent silly devices on the spot
. salma hayek is wasted as the romantic interest
, because she is viewed as little more than thgat
- window dressing to look pretty
anbd create conflict betweeen west
and gordon
. branagh
, an esteemed shakespearean actor
adn director
, adds marginal enjoyment to thge film
.
bu even he is so utterly weird
and over
- the
- top
. rarely is a film so lost in itself as wild wild west isnt
. i suppose there ' s always one turkey of the summer season
; a highly anticipated
, big
- budget release that manages to completely disappoint
. wild wild west isnt such a movie
,
and will probably go down as one of the biggest disappointments of 1999
.
but it is highly unlikely that this will go down in defeat at the box office
. perhaps after thsi
, audiences will be less assured when they see will smith ' s name stamped on a summer movie
. after such hits as independence day
anbd mib
, wild wild west is not an impressive addition to the resume
.