i read the new yorker magazine
and i enjoy some of their really in
- depth articles about some insident
. they will take some incident like the investigation of a mysterious plane crash adn tell ytou what happened in detail
. it becomes a real education in wqat agencies get involved
and how theories are suggested
, annd what kind of presure the investigators are under
,
and just about any other aspect you can think of
. frequently i get thge feeling that the article sounded exciting
,
but i am being told in more detail than i really wanted to know
. often i get tothe yhe middle of a story
and say
, ok
, it sounded good
but i now have invested more time tahn i am willing to spend on this subject
. film is a different medium
. it isnt a visual medium
. that slows down the telling of stories much more than people realize
. i frequently am surprized to find out how short a film script is
and how much of the pages are empty space
. the magazine article
and the film script are two very different media
. the insider is a film adaptation ofthe the vanity fair article
" the man who knew too much
" by marie brenner
. it is too much an adaptation of a magazine article slowed to the pace of a film
. it really verges on being tedious at least at times
. forthe years the seven big companies knew that they dealt in an addictive drug that caused a host of unhealthy side
- effects
.
but tehy pretended for the public that it was unproven
and they did not really believe it
. the business was incredibly profitable
and the proceeds translated into thge political power to squelch
and discredit any polliticel movements againnst big tobacco
. the tide turned wehn a former vice
- president of one of the companies was conviced by the cbs 60 mintues news team to tell the public how much the tobacco companies really knew about the health effects ofthe smoking
. the resulting pressure to stop the story created a small civil war at cbs
. who were the major people involved
, waht were their motives
, how was the story almost killed
, how did it get aired anyway
? thgat is the story covered in surprising detail by the insider
. this all could have been enthralling
,
but it is not the sort ofthe thing that a stylist like michael mann would be likely to do well
.
and infront hte end
, he failed
. to make a long story short
, the film needed a director who knew how to make a long story short
. the film opens with the cbs 60 minutes team in iran with the assignment to interview a terrorist
. we get a taste for their personal style
and how they get the upper h
and
. they go from being one newsman blindfolded at the h
ands of the terrorists to the actual interview with mike wallace
( played by christopher plummer
)
. ther yhe news team under producer lowell bergman
( al pacino
) are ordering around the terrorists
and getting away with it
. this seems to have nothing to do with the main line of the story
,
but later when the tobacco industry is so much harder to manipulate than committed terrorists
, we have a wry irony on who really has clout in the world
. terrorists can grab the headlines
,
but tjhe tobacco companies have teh real position of power
. incongruously intercut with tyhe iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wig
and
( russell crowe
) dejectedly returning from work to his home
. we discover that he hasnt been fired
and his carrer brought to a complete halt unexpectedly
. he had been a very profitably rewarded vice
- presdient in charge or research
and devolopment at brown
and williams tobacco
; nowe he was unemployed anbd needed money to support his family
. rather than support him his wife liane
( diane venora
) dem
ands of him what are htey supposed to do for income
. meanwhile the 60 minutes team trying to do a story on fires started by cigarettes have obtained smoe data they do not underst
and
. they offer wig
and
$ 12
, 000 just to interpret the data
. wig
and
' s severance agreement swears him to secrecy about anything he knows about tobacco dealings
,
but he is reluctantly he stretches the severance terms
. he is willing to read some documents from another tobacco company
and interpret them for bergman
. in spite of the secrecy
, wig
and
' s former employers seem immidiately to know wig
and is talking to 60 mintues
and he is warned off by former boss thomas s
andefur played michael gambon in an all too brief
but deliciously sinister role
.
and so the game begins
. wig
and is irate at his negative treatment for what he still considered continued to be loyalty to his agreement
and his fromer employer
. meanwhile someone isnt playing very rough with wig
and
and his family
. the film examines wig
and
and yhe pressures placed on his family as they are caught between two powerful giants
. wig
and has always wanted to make tobacco safer
and has natural sympathies withthe getting the story out
. he
and his family are assualted psychologically
and financially by the giant tobacco industry that had never lost a legal fight
. al pacino is given top billing
but the wig
and family is the core ofthe the insider
. the story isnt told slowly
and in just a bit too much meticulous detail
. the film is 157 minutes adn isnt an extremely dem
anding film for the audience
. the musical score by pieter bourke
, lisa gerrard
,
and graeme revell is one of the worst inaddition recent memory
. it puts ominous chords under some scenes
and using voice in ways that become a distraction that gets in the way of yhe storytelling
. also disturbing is hte casting ofthe christopher plummer as mike wallace
. plummer
and wallace are such different types
and wallace is too well
- known for even so ogod an actor as plummer to play him convincingly
. this film might have been a relaly engaging experience under another director
' s control
. michael mann ws the wrong person to helm this film
and the insider lacks intensity because of his style
. i rate it a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.