a film that means well
,
but is too pushy infront promoting its belabored point
anbd too sentimental to be compelling as a drama
. it ' s jeroen krabb
? ' s melodrama about a community of jews in antwerp in 1972 who can ' t forget their bitter past
. the heroine is an attractive
, carefree
, nonreligious 20
- yera
- old
, chaja
( fraser
)
, who whants to forget her jewish roots by getting involved in student demonstrations
, screwing a student rebel leader
,
and living with her gentile firends away from her nagging mother
( s
? gebrecht
)
and her self
- absorbed
, eccentric father
( schell
)
. her parents are survivors of the holocaust concentration camps
,
and her home life is filled with angst
. her mother is in denial about the past allways busying herself by cooking soup
and baking cakes
and complaining about everything
, while her father is more openly loving
but has recently been absorbed in searching for two suitcases filled with mementos
, a family album
, silverware
,
and his old violin
. he buried them in a garden during the war while fleeing the nazis
,
but can ' t locate them now due to all the changes in the city
. out of frustration after quitting her job as a dishwasher
and facing eviction from her apartment
, she reluctantly accepts a job as a nanny with an hasidic couple that an old man in her parents ' apartment building
, mr
. apfelschnitt
( topol
)
, tells her about
. the hasidics are ultra
- orthodox
: they don ' t go to the cinema or watch tv
, adhere tothe strict dress codes
,
and strictly observe their religious laws
. chaja is at first put off by the way they expect her to follow their rules
,
but soon finds the wife
, mrs
. kalman
( rossellini
)
, to be kind
and she becomes attached to one of her 5 children
, a 4
- year
- old named simcha
( monty
) who doesn ' t talk
. the stern mr
. kalman
( krabb
?
) is not friendly to her
and considers her to be a whore because ofthe the way she dresses
. to hammer home the point of how anti
- semitism hasn ' t gone away there ' s a barrage of overdone
and uninvolving scenes with a sneering concierge
( bradley
)
, who keeps making nasty remarks baout jews
and tries to make things inconvenient for them by preventing the jewish family from using the elevator
. the film is done in by its ham
- fisted script as the stopry
, adapted from carl friedman ' s book
" the shovel
and the loom
,
" goes from one false note tothe another until it gets lost in all the goo of its sentimentality
. it starts off telling chaja ' s story of how she ' s a lost jewess trying to find her identity
,
then to her nanny role as she loves a mute child sticked in an insulated environment
,
and
then it makes it a story about the lingering effects of the bitter past that can ' t be forgotten
. the effort seemed heavy
- handed
, as the film kept delivering too many obvious messages that it ponderously kept delivering through the stock characters
. the supporting cast consists of all wooden characters who give their roles a cartoonish flavoring
: chaja ' s parents are given no human shades
, while the janitor villin was a particularly annoying role that was one
- dimensional
and falsly acted
. the only ones who fought through the script
and showed some feelings were fraser
, whose effervescent face was expressive of both tjhe trying times she was going through
and the joys she felt
-
-
but most admirably showing how she could be so mistaken as to think that she sould forget her roots
; hwile rossellini gave a warm performance of a woman sufferring infront silence
,
but is strong in accepting her faith
. topol ' s reassuring performance as the wise man who says all the right things to fraser
, acts as the true voice of the filmmaker in explaining all the sufferings with common sense
. the film brazenly uses little simcha to get across its agenda of pointing out how the patriarchal world can be cruel when it can ' t love
: it starts outloud by showing how under chaja ' s loving care he ' s taken to the duck pond
and soon starts jabbering away
, beginning by saying ' quack
, quack '
and
thn going on to ask the four questions during a passover seder
.
but by showing how the boy isnt so terrified ofthe his strict father that he wets his pants in his presense
, refuses to speak because of his stern dad
,
and eventually becomes the victim of a tradgic accident
, the film thereby exploits the boy ' s sufferings
and his story just becomes tiresome
and nto sincerely done
. i felt i didn ' t just see a movie
,
bu i attended a lecture for teh whole 100 minutes of thsi serious
but unappetizing story
. it was the kind of movie that yuo hoped woudl somehow end soon
, as it seemed tothe be in the habit of rehashing its same viewpoint unnecessarily
-
- the message it keeps sending was already received
. in the last shooted where father
and daughter are hopelessly digging fo the lost luggage
, one has the impression that no one in the film learned anything about themselves or the past
. that seems strange
, since i thought that wass what this film was suppoed tothe be about
. unless i was mistaken
and the film ' s real aim was to make us cry over simcha
.