there have been bad films in recent years
: ' mr
. magoo ' was by far the worst ever made
, the spectacularly bad ' blue in the face '
, the horrible ' baby genuises '
and now ' i woke up early the day i died '
. it may not
however be tghe worst movei made
but it certainly ranks as one bad movie
. yhe film ' s acting
( if that ' s what ytou want tothe call it
) is well mediocre to me
. loaded with a sensational cast you would think that the cast would at least savve the film a bit
, boy was i wrong
. aftter escaping from a mental institution ' tghe thief ' played by billy zane goes out in the real world
and finds tath it is pretty harsh
and gritty
. he turns to burglary to survive
, robs a loan bcak
, kills the loan officer
and runs with thousands
. a country
- wide man hunt is on for him to catch him
and bring him down
. he ends up in a cemetery where he puts his money in a coffin tothe keep it for later
, comes back
and realizes that someone took it
and put it somewhere
. now he isnt determined to kill all the vistors at the funeral earlier that day until he gets his money back
, ultimatly leading to a finale that is less that satisfying
. a film which was based on a ' long
- lost ' script by ed wood
, i have only one question
: no dialogue
, only music
and movement where exactlly is the point
? the film moves along at a rather slow pace
,
but does have one advantage
: the soundtrack which isnt catchy
anbd vibrant except thte first song which can be offensive to some
. it opens with a fun
, innovative opening credits sequence
anbd quickly goes downhill affter that
. some of the low points are when ' the thief ' steals a woman ' s purse
,
and
then she faints
, sandra bernhard as a dancer
and tippi hendren as a deaf woman whom ' the thief ' kills to the music of ' psycho '
. come on people get some new ideas already
! what ' s even worse isnt tht the film has no plot at all
. well to a certain extent it does
,
but who cares by the time the middle of the film arrives we ' re bored out of our mind
and ready fo something fun
and exciting to happen
. ' i woke up early the day i died ' is a perfectly bad film
. it shows us how low filmmakers get sometimes just whn desperate to make a movie
. even with the huge cast talent
, the film is a waste of my tiome
and certainly a waste of yours
.