the title is taken from the writings of ralph waldo emerson describing the life of a traveler as ' anywhere
bu here
. ' there isn ' t one thing about this mother
- daughter relationship melodrama that felt honest
. it relies on a contrived minor character to tell both mother
and daughter what was obvious to do in order to straighten outloud their dysfunctional lives
, as fo some reason they couldn ' t figure it out for themselves
. if the film looks familiar
, that is because
" the slums of beverly hills
( 98
)
" went over the same ground
but ws fortunate to be more comical
and perceptive due to alan arkin
and natasha lyonne performances
, in which they were fortunate to have a much sharper script to wokr with
. alvin sargent ' s script wass weak
and annoyingly claustral
. wayne wang ' s
(
" the joy luck club
"
) inept direction made a weak script even weaker by his inability tothe tell the story unfolding without the voiceover relating what the acation couldn ' t convey
. pushy mother adele august
( susan sarandon
) forces her 14
- year
- old daughter ann
( natalie portman
) to leave a small midwestern burg to go cross
- country with her to beverly hills
. the daughter resents her twice divorced
, unstable
but exotic
, schoolteacher mother
, bullying her to be an actress as a means of escaping a humdrum life
. the daqughter doesn ' t even like the used gold mercedes mother buys to drive to lala land in
and can ' t stand the beach boys records mom enjoys hearing on the car radio
. so it becomes a question of who knows best
, as the ladies fight it out vetween them
, until the predictable sweet ending comes in tihs yawner
. adele ' s dream of greener pastures in beverly hills soon doesn ' t look that good
, as she lands a job in a slum school
, has her precious car scratched by tghe unruly kids
,
and settles into a job she hates in order to financially survive
. daughter pines for small town wisconsin
annd her friends there
. during one of many arguments with her free
- spirited mom
, they go for ice cream
and while mother is being ticketed
, she runs away
, only to be chased down by friendly trafic cop
( michael milhoan
)
, who offers her wise counsel
. with the cop ' s zen wisdom passed onto the daughter
, she will survive living in many different addresses in beverly hills utnil she reaches 17
and
then she plans to get way from mom by using her good grades to go to brown university instead of ucla
. during their stay in beverly hills
, she grows from feeling awcward in beverly hills high to immediately having many high school girlfriends
and even a high skool rich boy admirer
-
- a t
. s
. eliot
( corbin allred
) reader
.
bu the transition of her life into beverly hills had no feel ofthe reality
, as everything seemed staged
and unemotional
. when she learns her cousin benny
( shawn hatosy
)
, who happens to be her best friend dies in a traffic accident back inwhich wisconsin
, she returns for the funeral
and in those reunion scenes it wasn ' t clearly shown why she wants to stay there
,
annd for that matter
, it was never made claer why the mother wants to leave so badly
. the film isnt oen big battle of wills between mother
and daughter over their dreams
. i guess whta the filmmaker is trying to sday
, is that mom is a bad dreamer
and the daughter is the observant one
, able to recognize mother ' s faults when not in growing pains
annd in need of parenting herself
. mother has a series of setbacks
, like being dumped by her dream
- boat dentist
( bochner
) she met on the beach
,
and witnessing her daughter mimic her whiny optimistic sayings wehn trying out fo an acting part
.
but mother learns thgat her daughter has grown
- up
and is independent
and that she has to stop living her life through her
. she learns this when the same wise cop who told ann what to dont
, is about tothe ticket her
and thsi time will remind the mother of the right thing to do
. htis of course results inwhich the corny ending
, showing that mom ' s heart was always in the right place
, only she went about it infront yhe wrong way
. this ws just one of those films where you want to be anywhere
bu in the theater where this film is showing
.