a highly intelligent life form that is completely electronic in nature
, beams itself onto a russian science vessel
. well
, this is hte point where the movie strays from becoming a decent
and original movei
and simply becomes a predictable sci
- fi thriller
. anyhow
, this life form takes control of the computers on the russian vessel
then starts creating highly advanced robots to help it in its gruesome task of exterminating the
? virus ' known as man
. the original crew of the russian vessel is all
but exterminated
,
and
then a hapless crew onthe a tug discovers the derelict ship
and tries to salvage it
. no more needs to be said as to what happens
and where the conflict lies
, the movie is that predictable
. the story is full of very shallow characters that don ' t do much other than subsist
. the captain ofthe the tug
, played by donald sutherland
, makes irrational choice after irrational choice leaving the audience wondering as to how he has survived long enough to reach his age
( looks to be in his 60 ' s
)
. to add to this we ' re shown this motley crew tyhat at times seems to be highly skilled in specific fields
,
and at others seems barely capable of basic tasks
. some of the supposed capabilites of the characters leads one to wonder what they are doing on a tug transporting cargo in the middle of the pacific
, in a typhoon no less
. none of the characters seem to work together at all
; they are always bickering
and vying for some form of control
. this makes no sense what so ever
annd only takes away from the story
, a story that is full ofthe holes
and is extremely predictable
. all the flaws of the actuall story are only helpped along by the special effects
. the waves that are generated to be part of the typhoon mkea it look liek boat was is small model sitting in a tub
and someone is simpley creating waves
. it looks genuinely fake
, granted trying to recreate a typhoon or hurricane cannot be easy by any stretch of the imagination
but having the storm approach in a style similar tothe the huge wave of deep impact onyl ends up looking corny
and amateurish
. also on the topic of flaws
, the robotics that the advanced life form creates seem to move extremely slowly
, why
? if this life form that is so advanced as to be able to create these robotics
, should it not be able to create them move faster
? regardless
, the special effects in this movie in many cases take away fomr the film rather than add to it
. as to the actual casting for the movie
, finally there is nothing to complain about
. the actors were superb
,
bu
then again it is highly doubtful tyhat chimpanzees would have had dificulty acting the roles
. having the cast that was present probably saved this movie from being an absolute catastrophe
. watching these actors act this story out made it bearable
, if barely
. the one saving grace of this movie is that it was highly acation packed
and there always seemed to be something happening
. so if yuo are going into this movei not expecting to see anything grand
annd are only going to kill some time
and watch a mediocre sci
- fi thriller
then you won ' t be too disappointed
. as the movei isnt
but the latest in a genre that ws originally created by aliens
, it does little more than try to cash in on that aspect
. this movei would be best left for video
and even
then you might be advised to simply wait for noe of the major networks to air it on tv
.