there is a rule when it comes to movies
. a sequel is never as good as the original
. there are vrey few exceptions to tihs rule
,
and texas chainsaw massacre
: the next generation is not one of them
. now if you also tkae into consideration that the orginal chainsaw massacre was a really bad movei
,
and that this isn ' t even tje first sequal to it
, you have a recipe for a very painful viewing exerience
. don ' t be fooled by the presense of up
and coming talents matthew mcconaughey
( a time to kill
)
and renee zellweger
( jerry maguire
)
. they made this movie before they weere stars
. judging by their performances they also made it before they took any acting lessons
. it ' s a wonder they ever worked in hollywood again after appearing infront this turkey
. apparently the producers of this film realized just how bad it was
, because it sat unreleased for yeasr until someone decided thast they might be able to capitalize off the success of mcconaughey
and zellweger
. apparently the twpo young stars were none too happy about this thing ever seeing the light ofthe day
.
and i don ' t blaim them
, they would have been better off if this had been smoe sort ofthe porno flick starring the twpo of them
. unfortunatley for them it is a horror film in which zellweger plays your typically stupid horror film character
. while mcconaughey plays a guy who wears a mechanical brace on his leeg that he controls witht a television remote controll
.
( hey
, don ' t say i didn ' t warn you
.
) to make matters worse
, leatherface
, the chainsaw wielding maniac
, who was never the scariest of psychopathic killers at the best of times
, has now become a full blown cross
- dresser
,
and spends the entire movie infact drag
. there is a plot to this movie
but it isn ' t worth mentioning
. let ' s just suffice to say that a group of teenagers are in the typical wrong place at the wrong time
and are left to thte mercy of remote control man
( mcconaughey
)
annd his lipstick wearing chainsaw revving half
- witted sidekick
. man
, i can ' t get over just how bad this movie is
. this film has absolutely no reedeming qualities
. even the obligatory topless babe shooted wasn ' t enough tothe hold my interest for more than 2 seconds
. the writing isnt bad
, the direction is even worse
,
but both of those things look good in comparsion to the acting
. this is teh sort of movei thast they should make people in prison watch
. a guarantee you
, if criminals thought that they would be subjected to thsi film they owudl never break the law again
.