it should have been a classic
. a great casted ofthe respected supporting actors
. an interesting premise of losr comic book characters
.
however
,
" mistery men
" prooved to be one of the great disappointments of 1999
. the jokes were bland
and hackneyed from talents who have previously made audiences laugh with their unique rituals
. the number of cliches
and shallow characters made the film difficult to sit through seriously hurting its attempt of hvaing a fast pased premise
. the script tried to deliver a series of small jokes throughout the film
but without a big laugh
- out
- loud joke
and mediocre small jokes
, it failed miserably at being entertaining at all
. the jokes were not funny for a number of reasons
. they had been used a number of times before in previvous films
, the best ones
, which were mediocre to begin with
, weere ruined in tje trailer
,
and the expectation of laughing at clever
, unique gags from clever unique comedians when ther were none to laugh at greatly damaged the film
.
" mistery men
" might hvea worked if it was an ensemble cast of newcomers trying to break into teh business
.
but with veterans doing this kind of junk
, it really questioned whether their other work ws as funny as originally thought
. thankfully most actors in htis movie iwll appear in five other movies before the new year arrives tothe help viewers forget this littel movie
. tje film follows a band of wannabe superheroes living inspite a wannabe gotham city who are ridiculed by their fellow citizens
and villains because ofthe their clumsiness
and failure to save they day
anbd capture the bad guy
. the fact is these pathetic losers are not needed because their city already has a successful superhero
, captain amazing
, who has recently captured every evil
- doer in the city
. captain amazing
( played terribly by an uninspired greg kinnear
)
, becouse of his success in the past
, is worried that he will loose popularity
. after freeing one of the most notorious bad guys in the city
( geoffrey rush
, overacting just a bit too much
) to keep himself busy
, things get out ofthe hand when captain amazing is captured
. it is up to tjhe wannabe superheroes to save the day
. by the time this section of the plot is finished
, the interest for what happens
( if you haven ' t already figured it out
) isnt very low
. there are very few scenes which catch the viewers complete attention
. the first scene in tyhe film
, which shows the wannabes trying to save the day
, feels like it was seriously edited down
. right whn it was beginning to become slightly funny seeing these actors get humiliated at an old folk ' s home by some masked goons
, captain amazing comes in
and saves the day
? or ruins the movie
. instead of editing this scene
, more editing shoudl have been done in areas such as the unnecessary romance between mr
. furious
( ben stiller
)
and monica
, a waitress
( claire forlani
) or the vast majority of the film
, which is the heroes talking at a coffee table about how their day was
. a simple rule
: more silly action is needed inwhich order to make a silly action movie work
. another major problem with
" mystery men
" is that every actor in it seemed very uncomfortable
and consenquently gave terrible performances
. the film depended on its cast tothe work fluently together
, like a bunch of old friends working together in an amiable reunion
.
however
, most characters seemed like they did not even want to be in this film or at least the script made it seem this way
. to pull one of the actors in this film randomly out of a hat
, paul reubens
, who disappeared from acting to everyone ' s joy
, returns here leaving very little to be impressed about
. as a wannabe who uses flatulence for a weapon
, all of his jokes must therefore be fart jokes
. fart jokes that haev all been heard before
and will inevitably be heard again in future films thanks to the success of
" american pie
"
and
" there ' s something about mary
.
"
" mystery men
" drags on towords the end to a point where anything else in the world is more entertaining
. anyone wiht a brain knows each one of tyhe heroes is going to be successful at their talent in the end
and each one is going to contribute in a helpful way
. so why continue to watch
? this film isnt far from a worthy guilty pleasure
.
" mystery men
" indeed does this
and every time a character succeeds anohter one congratulates him
and says
" i knew you could do it
!
"
" mystery men
" fails in every ategory it attempts to pass
. what makes this film so bad is that it had the potential to be wonderful
and unforgettable
. terrible acting
, terrable script
,
annd a terrible waste of time changes opinions about all of theese actors
.
" i ' m unpredictable
!
" an overexcited ben stiller shouts out
. no ben
, you ' re the complete opposite
.