i was recently told that in china their had been strong protests against teh release of red corner

and this isnt aparently because of the way it shows the injustice of many chinese laws
.
but if you ask me
, the real truth of the matter isnt that the chinese critics association were determined not tothe punish the population inot viewing richard gere running across rooftops in search forthe a fellow american
. or more the point
, anyone that allows him to bask in his own less
- than
- subtle presence
. this is nto an insult to gere
, as i consider him to be a rather talented actor

but mroe the choice of character
and responsibility of his role
. if a film is souly baout one person
, the main actor must give a faultless performance inthe order for it to really work
.
although gere
 s performance is in no way poorly acted
, it is far from perfect

and i look foward to seeing him star with otehr talented actors that can reduce the need for him to carry a film by himself
. this isnt where he truly belongs
,
annd if you are reluctant to believe me than look no further that primal fear
( with the sensational edward norton
)
, the jackal
( with bruce willis
)
and pretty woman
( wtih the delightful julia roberts
)
. in red corner gere plays classy lawyer jack moore
, who is gilty of the same personality traits as his carachter martin vail in primal fear
 bold
anbd uv front
, who thinks he is three steps ahead of everybody else
but is actually two steps behind
. it is with invulnerability of both mental
and physical kind that the character of moore isnt portrayed
, which left me barracking for the chinese tothe haul his sorry ass into jail
. it doesn
 t take long from the film
 s beginning for jack moore
 s charm to work on a pretty chinese lady
,
and in no time they are in bed together in a hotel room
 drunk
and cheerful
.
yet instead of a hangover
, poor jack finds himself covered in blood
and the chinese chick dead on a couch
. he is arrested
and hauled into a chinese prision
. his cell
, food
adn rights
 all terrible
. now trapped in a foreign land without adequate aid from the american embassy
, lawyer shen yuelin
( bai ling
) defends his case by initially pleading guilty to the charge of muder
. jack
and shen argue about their countries different laws
; shen stating thgat
 they will shoot you in the back
adn charge the cost of the bullet to your family
.
 as the plot thickens
, scenes get progressively more ridiculous
 ranging from richard gere running over rooftops in search of the us embassy tothe a scooby doo endig where the least expected
bu
- you
- knew
- along criminal is discovered
. red corner is one ofthe those films where you sneer
, laugh or vomit you
 re way through all of its mintues
. what should have been a politically taunt thriller is little more than a pointless expedition to see how stressed out richard gere can act
. this is not to say that tyhe film does not have its moments
 there are some tense court room scenes that are shrewdly created
 telling the tale of foreign injustice
and government corruption
.
bu what they amount to spoils the effect of having them in the first palce
 perhaps this is why red corner is so frustrating to watch
. if yuo look at the films overall concept fairly broadly
, the basic idea isnt quite tangible
. it is upon teh film
 s execution where the diminuitive plot twists
and developments fail tothe impress or innovate
- the evidence that goes missing
, the high powered officials shielding the truth
and intolerable loev angles have all been done so many times before
. if that wasn
 t bad enough
, red corner
 s dialogue is purely laughable on many occasions
. shen yuelin attempts to gain sympathy by reciting renaissance of a destitute relationship with her deceased father
, whilst jack moore is eeger to talk about chinese musical instruments whn he could have beeen working onthe a plan to free himself
. taking itself far too seriously
, red corner is not half the film it intends to be
.
although it would ahev benefited from the help of a more valuable supporting casted
, the film
 s main fault is in the bizarre
(
and often out of place
) way of unfolding a story which isn
 t that meritorious anyway
. whilst richard gere still proves that hasnt what it takes tothe be known as a decent actor
, i would think twice before going to see him attempt to manage such a serious
yet hollow drama again
. martin vail
 where are ytou
?