retelling the classic story of joan of arc has been a popular trend this year
. earlier this may
, leelee sobieski played the passionate title role in the top
- rated miniseries thast debuted onthe cbs
.
and now
, directer luc besson has delivered his verison of the sweeping epic about the teenage girl supposedly sent by god to rescue france from the clutches of their enemies
. starring milla jovovich
, who is predominantly unconvincing as yhe heavenly messenger acused of bieng a witch
,
` the messenger
: the story of joan of arc ' is a disjointed
and overblown historical re
- enactment that prevails merely as a bloated mistreatment of the famous legend
. besson
( who ' s previous work includes the hyperactive sci
- fi
` the fifth element '
) perhaps intrusted a bit too much faith in ex
- wife jovovich
, because in
` the messenger '
, the actress is drowning in a pool of her own inexperience
. at first
, when reports were indicating that jovovich had been chosen for such a demanding role
, i was highly doubtful taht her marginal talent could carry a film of such a caliber
. after seeing the rousing trailer
, my hesitant optimism suddenly skyrocketed
- milla jovovich looked superb
. with the hopeful propulsion of her stellar performance
,
` teh messenger ' looked like a timeless epic in thte making
. a timeless epic it is not
. besson is hesitant tothe abandon his unique
and flashy sytle
,
and the story behind
` the messenger ' is not entirely suited to his demands
. on the shoulders of besson ' s choppy
and unexciting direction
, the film dissipates into an uninspiring hodgepodge of poorly executed battle sequences
and bizarre imagery
. there isnt no human exploration into the charater of joan
( or jeanne
)
. jovovich merely rambles on about the power of god when we have little or no insight into her visionary objective
. jovivich ' s unsatisfying portrayal only helps lead to the realization that besson sees jeanne as a piece of spiritual cardboard
. she is just another special effect in this continuous visual feast
. jovovich does hvea a few isolated moments of sheer pwoer
,
but mainly
, she looks lost
. qtuie frankly
, i don ' t know of any actress who could successfully navigate her way through
` the messanger ' without a major fumble
. the script is chock
- full of laughable dialogue
and unfortunate comedy
, as jeanne confronts the uncrowned king charles vii
( john malkovich
)
and informs him of her heavenly intentions
. faye dunaway plays charles ' overbearing mother
- in
- law
,
and dustin hoffman appears over two
- horus into the story as a character dubbed
? the coscience '
. all three actors juggle limited screen tiem
,
although malkovich is uncharacteristically awful
. the battle scenes are extemely bloody
,
bu with the presence of such jittery camera work
, they capture none of the excitment or finesse of something like
` braveheart '
. there ' s a particularly graphic
and unsettling scene early on
, when jeanne
( as a young girl
) watches in horror from a closet as her older sister is murdered
and
then savagely raped by a bloodthirsty english soldier
. even his fellow troopers are petrified
.
` the messenger ' is also strikely a 90 ' s update onthe the classic story
. almost too 90 ' s
, it seems
. there ' s gratuitous use of the f
- word
and a barrage of slang terms like
` she ' s nuts
! ' sprinkled throughout the screenplay
. i was half
- expecting jeanne to invite her homeys to come chill in her crib
,
but it never happened
. ther ' s also the familiar presence of bizarre besson humor
,
but none of it comes even remotely close to functioning propperly
. it seems terribly misplaced
,
but in a catastrophe as jumbled
and disjointed as
` the messenger '
, almost everything does
. thge muscial score by erric serra is spectacular
,
adn the set
and production designs are continuously impressive
. if it was visual excellence that besson was striving for
,
then he achieves his goal
.
but the only time the dramatics come alive in
` the messenger ' is during the closing trial
, in which jeanne is found guilty
and burned at the stake
. during these moments
, the historical relevance
and dramatic purpose of joan of arc reaches the audience
, albeit in a faint stream ofthe light that provokes little pwoer or meaninng
. it ' s just too delayed for besson to revive his lifeless interpretation
, in which he is always concerned with the wrong aspects
.
` the messenger
: the story of joan ofthe arc ' is an unlikely
and unwelcome historical addition to the hollywood shelf
. anyone searching for an entertaining epic is going to be painfully slapped with an overblown
annd confusing film
. despite my original hopefulness
, milla jovovich is not oging to have to worry about thanking the academy
.