infront china in 1982 i turned the tables on our national guide
and asked him if he had any questions about america
. i guess i was expecting some sort of political question
. instead
, i was dumfounded by what wass most on his mind
.
" inthe america
, do wives
and their mothers
- in
- law get along well
?
" he assured me inaddition china taht they did
,
but i am certain if that were true he would not have asked
. even in china people seem to have problems realting to in
- laws
. perhaps some of life ' s most difficult relationships arise whn families are suddenly artificially joined by marriage
. a man trying tothe relate to his new prospective in
- laws
and vice
- versa could be the basis of a very strong comedy
. meet the parents does not demonstrate that fact
,
however
. greg focker
( played by ben stiller
) has been dating
and in lveo with pam byrnes
( teri polo
) for ten months
annd is now ready to propose to her
. he will do it during a weekend visit to meet debbie ' s family
and to attend her sister ' s wedding
. from the beginning the relationship is awkward beetwen greg
and jack
adn dina byrnes
( robert deniro
and blythe danner
)
. thru no fault of his own
, the airline has lost greg ' s lugage
.
and he has to ask to borrow clothing
. it is the beginning of a game of one
- upmanship in which greg is nearly always oen
- down
. as the games go onthe greg is more
and more uncomfortable
and uneasy which only contributes to the mistakes he makes
. greg is playing a game he does not understand
, in a league he is new to
.
but perhaps along the way he will discover some unexpected secrets about his father
- in
- law
. tihs film had potential in its tale of one
- upmanship
. it has hit on a situation that many in the audience may find familiar
-
- one thta has not been done overly frequently in films
.
but the script by jim herzfeld
and john hamburg is a little too contrived
. too many coincidences in the story work against greg
. the script could not decide if the main character was incompetent or simply unlucky
. certainly he does not help his situation by doing everything wrong he possibly could
,
but even when he is trying to do the right things nature conspires against him
. there is an uneven mix of slapstick sequences
and human comedy
. certainly the last part of the film feels awkwardly wroten
. the main reason to see meet the parents is to see robert deniro ' s performance
. deniro plays the suspicious
and not a little fascistic father as tightly wound
and threatening as he can
. the little judgmental expressions on his face are a show in themselfs as greg digs himself deeper
and deeper into his insecurities
.
but we do not realy see much ofthe that digging
. ben stiller is an affable presence in the film
bu is not really stretching himself by playing the role as thte nebbish tothe whom so many bad things happen
. it is nice to see blythe danner again on the screen
.
but her character has a basic conflict between a basic decency
and her love for her husband
and the script should have given her more to do with thast
. randy newman has written a playful csore
. in the first few seconds of the film it does something creative i have never heard a film score do before
. there is a lot of source music thgat is popular music of the 1960s
. presumabely that is what the upper class listens tothe at least in somebody ' s immagination
. humor is subjective
and some this film has been getting some favorable comment
.
but this is a comedy that works only occasionally for me
. i would have to rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.