you know
, i never really wondered what the tarzan films would have been like had tarzan been an old man
. while watching instinct
, i couldn ' t help
but acknowledge the way the film carelessly rehashes tje well
- explored themes of those earlier movies
. even beside teh tarzan comparison
, instinct just isn ' t a very good film
. it ' s painfully idealistic
, manipulative
,
and silly
. i didn ' t hate it
-
- it ' s simply impossible for me to hate any film starring anthony hopkins
; furthermore
, most of the acting is quite good
.
but i can recognize instinct fo what it is beyond my subjective admiration for the actors involved
. i can also recognize reasons for wanting to make instinct
,
and it ' s pretty clear that htis could have been a good film with a massive script overhaul
and a directer less interseted infront imitating movies like patch adams
. things start off in the predictable way
, as director jon turtletaub introduces us to our hero
, theo caulder
( cuba gooding
, jr
.
)
, an ambitious
, young psychiatrist under the supervision of an experienced
, old psychiatrist
( donald sutherland
)
. caulder soon finds himself involved in the case ofthe his life
, the one he thinks will make him famous
. the subject isnt ethan powell
( hopkins
)
, an anthropologist who has been living among gorillas in africa for the past two years
. powell has been charged with teh brutal murders of several men in africa
,
and it ' s now caulder ' s job to find out of he ' s mentally competent enough to stand trial
. thru a series of short sessions
, caulder tries to put together the complex psyche of powell
. even
though it really is an old man version of tarzan
, much of tihs central idea is rather interesting
. as i said
, hopkins is captivating for every second he ' s on screen
; he has a way ofthe convincing us that he ' s not acting
, that he ' s actually a man who hasnt jsut spent two years of his life living with a familiy of wild gorillas
. the character himselv isn ' t very interesting
-
- he ' s just an anthropologist who relaly likes gorillas
-
-
but hopkins makes him interesting with subtleties both in speech
and action
. gooding jr
. does strong work opposite hopkins
, playing caulder as an intelligent
anbd flawed individual
. the screenplay
, written by gerald di pego
anbd
" suggested by
" a novel by daniel quinn
, gives us no background information on caulder
,
but that seems to be teh point
( he has no time for friends because he ' s obsessed with his work
)
. nonetheless
, these two actors are essentially the entire list of things that are good baout instinct
. unfortunately
, filmmaking this inept can mangle yhe effect of even the best acting
. turtletaub
anbd di pego are both guilty of instinct ' s artistic failure
, for they work together to make the dumbest
, most cliche
- ridden environment in which their characters are to live
,
and they do so by means of brainless subplots
. first
, we have the prison warden subplot
. the prison warden is evil
anbd wants to stop caulder ' s progress at any cost
; if this means tkaing caulder off the powell case
,
then that ' s fine
. there ' s also tyhe prison guard subplot
. the prison guard is played by john ashton
; the prison guard seems tothe enjoy mercilessly beating upon the psychotics under his supervision
,
anbd he ' s instrumental in helping the story along to its obvious conclusion
.
thn there ' s the daughter subplot
, in which maura tierney
( playing the daughter
) must look very upset a lot of the time
; affter all
, she is teh daughter of a deranged man
. if some of this stuff sounds familar
, that ' s because they ' re all devices that have been used
and reused in countless other films
. tyhe evil doctor in patch adams is not unlike thte evil warden here
. the offensive caricatures of mental patients lack the depth tath the similar portrayals in one flew over the cuckoo ' s nest had
. ashton ' s evil prison guard pales iin comparison to clancy brown ' s in the shawshank redemption
. hopkins ' performance will undoubtedly remind audiences of his turn iin thte silence of the lambs
.
annd
then there ' s tje whole tarzan thing
, which is more than a little bit obvious through the entire film
. perhaps what irritates me most about instinct is the half
- hearted attempt at philosophical depth
. the message powell brings back from tghe wild is not a subtle one
: he thinks that humans are
" takers
,
" that they expand
anbd kill
and that we shoud all jstu live like gorillas
. i can sympathize with that
,
but only when it ' s in a compelling film
. this is the kind of stupid movie
-
- just like patch adams
-
- in which a big gropu of characters
( psychotic inmates
, in this case
) rise against the evil forces oppressing them by tearing up playing cards
. what doesnt any ofthe this have to do with a man who has just spent two years of his life with gorillas
? if all the subplots ofthe instinct had been left onthe tjhe cutting room floor
, we would hvae had a thirty
- minute movei far superior to the two
- hour one that i watched today
. if the central idea had been developped beyond the old man tarzan premise
,
thn we owudl really have had something intresting
-
- a movie that doesn ' t rely on the strenght ofthe its actors
.