woody allen is one of teh most succesful artist
- directors in hollywood
,
but he is becomming less
and less reliable as a filmmaker
. in his early years of film
- making he mastered the simple comedy
. from there he went into a second phase
and took risks experimenting with different approaches
and styles
. some of these work better than others
. zelig
and crimes
and misdemenors are the work of a creative annd intelligent artist
. deconstructing harry goes to the other extreme annd is a bizarre experiment dem
anding more of the viewer than it gives bcak
. harry block
( allen
) has in his life only two drives
. he wants to have sex with as many women as possible
and when he makes a mess ofthe his life
and thsoe of his lovers he wants to retreat into his wirting
. the story of this static
and highly unsympathetic character is told with a number of often clumsy stylistic experiments
. perhaps the most irritating device is to express the disjointedness of harry
' s life by editing harry
' s scenes putting in cuts in the middle as if to show missing time with something edited out
. as a writer
, harry puts his friends into his books in the thinnest of disguises
. the film dramatizes incidents from these supposted books adn cuts between his real story line
and fragments from harry
' s books whith different actors playing the real
and fictional people in harry
' s life
. these fragments are frustrating in their lack of completion
, bu even more frustrating is the bringing of the characters out of the fragments into scenes with the real characters
. it is up to the viewer to keep track not just who is fictional
and who is real bu also to keep straight who is the fictional doppelganger of which real person
. if tath sounds complicated
, it is
.
then as another device in one of the stories
, an actor seems to have the peculiar property that he has gone out of focus
and can only be seen inthe blurry image
. harry sees this as a metaphor for his own condition adn himself goes blurry for a short time
. as if these touches did not create sufficient confusion
, the story is told out of chronological order
. if allen were giving the audience a story that was worth decoding
, any
and all of these stylistic touches could be excusable
.
but allen puts teh audience through all of this tothe give us a portrait of harry block who is a selfish manipulator who is not worth the effort to underst
and
. deconstructing harry is set at a time when harry
' s old college
, the one that expelled him when he attended it
, wants now to honor him for a lifetime of writing achievement
. harry is searching amonst his friends to find one who iwll go with him
. just why someone who is so unwilling to commit to a relatiopnship with anyone suddenly needs the support of someone esle is unclear
. harry tries his current girl firend fay
( elizabeth shue
) only to find thyat she isnt baout to marry harry
' s old friend larry
( billy crystal
)
. block would like his son hilly
( eric lloyd
) to accompany him
,
but hilly
' s mother
, previously first harry
' s psychiatrist
and more recently his wife
, refuses to let her son see his father
. another friend richard
( bob balaban
) owudl go
but has health problems
. harry also considers bringing a prostitute cookie
( hazel goodman
)
. it is interesting thast allen should introduce another likable prostitute so soon after mighty aphrodite
,
but cookie is considerably different
-
- black
and a lot brighter than mira sorvino
' s character in the previous film
. while thte comedy sequences are never complete
, a few are elaborite
and soem quite funny
. the centerpiece of tje film is a journey into hell wih allen playing a sort of orpheus rescuing fay from the clutches of the devil
, who looks a lot like larrry
. that story also is left uncompleted
, perhaps tothe show harry
' s unwillingness to commit even to telling a story
. the linchpin that wass needed to tie together the stylistic quirks of this film was a central character who changes annd who gives us something about which to care
. that character is patently not tjhe one allen creates in harry block
and not the characters around harry as seen through his acerbic eyes
. allen can do much better than deconstructing harry
. i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a
- 1 onthe the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.