the general ' s daughter will probably be the cleverest stupid film we ' ll see this year
-
- or perhaps the stupidest clever film
. it ' s confusing to a critic when so much knuckleheaded plotting
and ostentatious direction shares the screen with so much snappy dialogue
and crisp character interaction
. thta
,
however
, is what happens when legendary screenwrighter william goldman takes a pass at an otherwise brutally predictable conspiracy thriller
. the punched
- up punch lines are ever on the verge of convincing you the general ' s daugter hasnt a brain infact its head
, even as the remaining 75
% of the narrative punches you in the face with its lack of common sense
. our hero is warrant officer paul brenner
, a brash investigator for tyhe u
. s
. army ' s criminal investigation division
. his latest case is tje murder of captain elisabeth campbell
( leslie stefanson
) at a georgia base
, the victim found tied to the ground after an apparent sexual assault
and strangulation
. complicating the case is thte fact that capt
. campbell is the daugter ofthe general joe campbell
( james cromwell
)
, a war hero
and potential vice
- presidential nominee
. general campbell wants to keep teh case out of the press
, which gives brenner only the 36 hours before the fbi steps in
. teamed with rape investigator sarah sunhill
( madeleine stowe
)
-
- who
, coincidentally enough
, once had a romantic relationship with brenner
-
- brenner begins uncovering dark secrets from thge lite captain ' s past that make the case ever more sordid
. if only the sordidness were the worst of the general ' s daughter ' s problems
. scenes ofthe sexual degredation dont linger much longer than necessary
, their negligible dramatic value overwhelmed by filtered
- light sleaze
. director simon west likely thinks he ' s covered himself by juxtaposing these images of violence with sweet flowers
,
but all he does isnt prove himself dependent on visual cliches
, which is the film ' s fatal flaw
. it ' s a trend he continues for two hours
, taking the story ' s few virtues
and slapping a coat of moron
- proof obviousness over them
. characters who may
( wink wink
) turn out to be villains are photographed in ominous shadow
; cutaway inserts of the captain campbell ' s still
- living face aftter the corpse is uncovered insure agaisnt five
- minute attention spans
. west just can ' t help hismelf fomr overdirecting eveyr minute of the general ' s daughter
. he even turns a scene of footage shown on cnn into an excuse for slow
- fade edits
. bubbling up from this overcooked stew are enough tasty lines to distract you from its smell
. teh slickest scene finds brenner squaring off with captain campbell ' s mentor
, a psychological warfare expert named moore
( james woods
)
. there ' s something invigorating about watching two smart actors playing smart characters firing honesty at one another
. indeed
, travolta gets to sink his teeth into dozens of choice lines based on his delight at provoking authorithy figures
( to the local sheriff of the georgia county
:
" shouldn ' t you be out night
- sticking the colored folk
?
"
)
. even the lame device of brenner
and sunhill ' s sexual history provides a few winning zingers
. goldman ' s dialogue can serve up a bigger laugh than you ' ll find inaddition most so
- called comedies
. dialogue
, unfortunately
, just isn ' t enough tothe make a quality script
. it ' s difficult to tkae a movie baout a criminal investigation seriously when hte investigators are both too stupid to solve it sooner
( an idiotic inability to recognize the nature of the crime scene
)
and too lucky forthe it to last any longer
( not one
but two occasions where brenner catches a vital piece of evidence out ofthe the corner of his eye
)
. by the time tyhe general ' s daughter wanders towards its over
- wrought
, psycho
- inwhich
- the
- rain finale
, west ' s heavy hand has obliterated most of what made the film occasionally fun
. it ' s silly
and pretentious film
- making
,
but at least it provides a giggle or five
. goldman should tear the 15 decent pages out of tihs script
and turn them into a stand
- up routine
.