disillusioned
and trying to find tjhe spice of life
, richard
( leonardo dicaprio
) sets off for thailand
. there he a meets crazed man by the name of daffy
( robert carlyle
) who gives him a map to a beach
, a secret utopia
,
then commits suicide
. richard sets off for this beach with his neighbors from this hotel
,
? tienne
( guillaume canet
)
and fran
? oise
( virginie ledoyen
)
. once they get there the three discover a secret society existing on this beach
, there richard falls for fran
? oise
. this covers about half to two thirds of teh movei
and aside from the romantic element
, which is solely a creation ofthe hollywood
, seems to hold to the originnal novel
. the cinematography
and general beauty of htis part of thte movie is breathtaking
. i don ' t think anyone can argue that this movie is visually stunning
.
but that is were many thnigs go wrong
, darius khondji has totally outdone himself in doing the cinematography
.
though tjhe scirpt
and the intepretation of the novel are quite lacking
. the plot of the movie moves along at a decent pace for about half of the movie or there abouts
. this is where the movie has some grat potential
,
thn the three travelers get the island
and there is a turn for the better
, yes folks i said better
. nowe up to about two thirds of this movie its actually pretty good
, nothing spectacular aside from the cinematography
but it still has promise
. this is where things start to degenerate to something that becomes almost un
- watchable
. there is even a ' video gmae ' style sequence that borders on the disgusting
, it doesn ' t make sence for the movie
and just looks dumb in my opinion
(
and i am hoping many otehr peoples
)
. i am hoping that in my little rant i ' ve made it abundantly claer tath the movie is lacking quite seriously in plot
and uneven pacing
, so if you go see it
adn you don ' t like it because of this don ' t blame me
. tje character development was not up to par either
; i found the character of richard to be nothing more than a spoiled child
.
although there is a feeble attemp to make this whole story profound it fails
and richard
( leo ' s character
) comes off as a wannabe philosopher
. the chracter seems to be underdeveloped from the get go
and seems to just dont things for no apparent reason
, granted soem people are like tihs
( myself included
)
but i nor anyone i know that is fairly random would ever dont things of the sort this character does
. the enxt point isnt that some of the really intresting characters are simply not developed enough
. richard is obviously obsessed by fran
? oise at thte early stages of the story
,
yet htere is actually very little development along this sotry line
. this i am sure contributes to the movie ' s lack of core plot
adn being unfocused
. now
, i shall move onto something a little better about the movei
( for all you cynics out there the movei did have a few good things about it
)
. the cast
and acting was passable at the very least
,
and i think that leonardo dicaprio actually did pretty well in the role of richard
. mind you i think the rest of the cast that had some which had reasonably sized roles doed equally well if not better
. which begs the question why is leonardo paid so much
?
( i think this is a topic all on its own so i won ' t get into it
)
.
but i like the fact that ther was an international cast used
, had only
and american cast been used i can see this movie being horrible
. the intenational flavor added a more global feel tothe the movie that made it that much more bearable
. nto to mention the movie is set in thailand
and a global cast makes more sence
. when all is said
and done i liked the movie for the most part
but tje gaping inadequacies of the plot are unforgivable
. i would not recommend this movie to anyone
, the fact that i liked it has a lot to do with thge cinematography
and the sheer beauty of the movie not its plot or story
. as it is the stor tries to be much too philosophical
and fails at its attept
. if you do end up going to see this movie be forewarned about its shortcomings
.