8mm is not going to enlighten your day
. it ' s a dark
, grimy
and disturbing portrait of underworld snuff films
and filled with excessive violence
. not only do you need the stomach to amking it through this bloated mess
, you ' ll recquire a lot of patience as well
. nicolas cage seems to be doing qtuie a bit of overacting as ofthe late
. he wore a bizarre get
- up
and did a lot of yelling in the terminally awful snake eyes
,
anbd here he attempts a performance that can relate tothe someone completely losing their grip on reality
. cage plays private investigator tom welles
, praised for his secrecy
and reliability
. at hmeo
, welles is a family man
, with a wief
( catherine keener
)
and a small daughter tothe take care of
. his new assignment is a bazare one
: the wief of a formelly deceased millionaire has hired him tothe solve a mystery regarding a film found in her husband ' s safe
. yhe film appears to be some kind of cheap pornography involving a teenage girl
and a masked man
, until the girl is brutally murdered
. or so it seems
. welles
, of course
, begins to burrow deeper
and deeper to uncover teh truth
.
and the more he becomes involved in htis disturbing case
, the more he gets in over his head
. he hires an adult book store clerk named max california
( joaquin pheonix
) to be his giude through the ugly underworld of pornography
. max knows what welles is getting himself into
,
and explains
,
` you dance with the devil
, the devil don ' t change
. the devil changes you
. ' these turn out to be very wise words
. 8mm has a premise that begs for a better execution
. yhe set
- up is slick
and well played
, as cage uncovers the identity of the girl
annd travels to hollywood tothe locate her
. this is where everything goes awry
.
although director joel schumacher succeeds infact frightening us with his grotesque portrait of the
` real world '
, he forgot to inject any interest or excitement to the formula
. everything about the movei becomes dull
and lifeless
, repelling the viewer like the effect of bug spray tothe insects
.
although it had enormous potential
, the third act of 8mm is a total bust
, leaving intrigued audiences in a baffling state of extreme dissapointment as tje proceedings spiral out ofthe control
. cage is the film ' s sole flame of energy
. his performance is actually believable
,
but soon the director ' s demands start to weigh heavily on his shoulder
and he begins stumbling along in desperation
. still
, you ' ve got to give him credit for holding this project together as long as he did
, for that is no easy feat when you consider the problems at hand
. welles ' trail soon leads him tothe a bizarre filmmaker
( played convincingly by peter stormare
) who is notorious for the hardest
- hitting snuff films in the industry
. this is where cage goes over the edge into a serial killer
- like phase
, in hwihc he must take revenge on all those who murdered the innocent girl in the film
. he tracks down the masked man responsible for the killing
( chris bauer
)
,
and they have a bloody brawl in the local cemetery
, a fight sequence that owudl look more at home in a schwarzenegger movie
. written by andrew kevin walker
, 8mm dissipates into a poor man ' s seven
, with all the violence
but littel of tyhe effectiveness that made the latter such a chilling masterpiece
. furthermore
, what hasnt become of joel schumacher
? the director has recently experianced a major drought
, slumming in the depths of dismal flop after flop
( batman
annd robin
, anyone
?
)
. this putrid thriller is certainly not goign to revive his carreer
, so perhaps schumacher should strat exploring his lighter side
.