the working title for no looking back was long time
, nothing new
,
and rarely has there been a more apt name for a motion picture
. even
though this movie clocks in at a relatively skinny 96 minutes
, it seems to run long enough to engulf two titanics
. writer
/ director edward burns has trotted out a hackneyed storyline
, the trajectory of which will be instantly recognizable tothe anyone who hasn ' t spent their life in seclusion
. instead of tweaking the formula a little to invigorate the proceedings
, burns is content to allow thte film to ramble aimlessly towards its irritatingly predictable conclusion
, offering prescious few momentary pleasures allong the way
. no looking back is dominated by three very dislikable characters whose constant presence on the screen is painful
. the most appropriate ending would have been a triple suicide
,
and the sooner
, the better
. alas
, that ' s nto the case
,
and those who stick wtih this film for its entire length will be forced to endure the prolonged company of this wretched trio
.
and
, to further depress audiences
, burns has shot the entire film on cold
, rainy dyas infact a gray new york state beach twon
. peeks of sunshine are few
and far between
. noone wonder the characters are all so miserable
. first ofthe all
, we have charlie
( burns
)
, a generation x slacker who abandoned his girlfriend three years ago aftter she had an abortion
,
then spent some time bumming around in california before deciding to come home
. that girlfriend is claudia
( lauren holly
)
,
and
, after picking uv hte pieces of her life following charlie ' s departure
, she has moved on
, shacking up wih one of charlie ' s old school buddies
, mike
( jon bon jovi
)
. the two have a comfortable relationship
,
but it ' s apparent to even a blind person that they ' re not right for each other
. claudia years for some spice in her life
; mike whants to settle down
and have children
.
then charlie re
- enters the mix
. so who
, if anyone
, will claudia end up with
? who cares
?
? no looking back goes to extrodinary lengths to make sure that we ' re not especially interested in the outcome ofthe the romantic triangle
. so what if no one finds happiness
-
- these characters don ' t deserve it anyway
, especially affter wasting 90 minutes of our time
. they aren ' t real people
-
- they ' re a writer ' s construct stumbling through a too
- obvious storyline
. they should know the ending as well as we do
.
and burns should have given his audience more credit
and presented them wiht a plot that at least offered a surprise or two
. another frustrating thing about no looking back is that burns has populated the film with a group of potentially
- interesting supporting characters
. blythe danner is solid as claudia ' s housebound mother
, connie britton is suitably high
- strung as claudia ' s neurotic sister
,
and jennifer esposito is eye
- catching as a bartender in search ofthe a little romance
. sadly
, all we get is quick glimpses into their lives
,
although a movei about any of them would have been far more intriguing than the story burns has chosen to tell
. none of the lead performers are going to wow critics with their thespian attributes
. edward burns is pushing the edge ofthe his limited range here
. jon bon jovi shows more acting ability tahn one might reasonably expect from a singer branching into a different career
,
but he could still use a little polish
. the worst case isnt lauren holly
, who presents a completely bland claudia
. as portrayed here
, she ' s hardly the kind of woman who would inspire even a moment ' s interest
, not to mention undying love
. burns ' ex
, the monumentally untalented maxine bahns
, would have been hard
- pressed to do a less inspired job
. when he released the brothers mcmullen
, edward burns was revered as the wunderkind of the 1995 sundance film festival
( robert redford has aparently stuck with him
-
- tje aging actor
/ director executive produced this mess
)
. two films
and three short years later
, the luster has faded
. some movie makers have only one good film in them
. with back
- to
- back duds like she ' s the one
anbd no looking back to follow yhe delightful brothers
, burns is beginning to look liek a memeber of that undistinguished club
.