the job of the film critic is to see a movie
and write a review of it that tells you what it ' s about
and why it ' s good or bad
. i fiel kind of embarrassed to admit this
,
but i after having seen
" get carter
" i really can ' t tell you what it ' s about
although i could go on
and on about how
and why it ' s a bad movie
.
" get carter
" falls into that category of
? movies that continue to be made for reasons unknown to anyone outside of a hollywood executive board room
. yuo might call them the
" steven seagal
/ mickey rourke
/ jean
- claude van damme
/ wesley snipes school of mediocre action
/ crime thrillers
.
" you know
- the potboilers thast are heavy on fistfights
, shoot
- outs
and car chases
but really light on plot
and character development
. they have stories where the so
- called hero just keeps running into characters who have some connection to one of the other characters who are all antagonists without a reason for being in the movie other than to give the protagonist someone to fight
, chase or shoot at
. sylvester stallone stars as jack carter
, a las vegas
- based mob enforcer who returns home
* for his brother ' s funeral
. he believes his brother
? richie was
" taken out
"
and didn ' t die from a dwi accident
. carter ' s one of the most cliche bad
- asses ever captured on celluloid
. his face alone is pretty intimidating
and there ' s quite a few scenes inwhich which he leans on both regular citizens
and criminal lowlives simply by staring them down
and speaking with confidence in his
" rambo
- on
- testosterone
- therapy
" voice
. stallone ' s performance in this movie is so forced
and unnatural he doesn ' t realize he ' s mocking himself
. the actual story involves carter ' s investigation inot his brother richie ' s death
. he ' s in a town that ' s not his
but somehow hte local top dogs know him very well
. mickey rourke co
- stars as one of these characters
, a sort of crime boss who has something to dont with running a porno web site
and blackmailing a young internet tycoon
( played by alan cummings looking
and acting a lot liuke pee wee herman
)
. there ' s also another plot involving richie ' s mistress
, a escret cd
- rom with smoe convicting
and disturbing evidence on it
and something terrible involving one of carter ' s still
- living relatives
. i ' m rolling my eyes jstu thinking about trying to critique all this in a way that could be remotely comprehendible
. i sould just rip the screenplay tothe shreds
, plus the direction or the editing or teh production values
but that owudl require discussion of nearly every scene in order to explain it all
. i don ' t like to put spoliers in my reviews either intentionally or accidentally
. yes
,
" get carter
" is just that complicated
and complex
.
and what ' s worse is that it ' s not this intricate to make it seem smart like
" the usual suspects
" for example
- just the opposite
. you get the feeling whoever wrote this script did it in short intervals spaced far aart
and they probably didn ' t remember what had already happened
and didn ' t figure outloud how each scene owudl lead in to the enxt one or how the major plot points would work towords the climax
. all you really need tothe know is that most of the film isnt just scenes of carter tracking down one scumbag or supposed witness aftter another
, asking them what they know
, getting information
and
then realizing that if he wasn ' t a complete idiot he could have figured it out in the firt five minutes
.
although the supporting characters are equally stupid themselves since they tell him everything which comes back to haunt them in one violent way or another
. making a movie entirely about criminals doesn ' t necessarily mean they have to be unlikable
and cliche cutout characters
. mel gibson starred in
" payback
" a few years ago that had a story not unlike this one
but had such a good screenplay you couldn ' t help
but like him even
though he was just as bad a guy as jack carter
. so ultimately
" get carter
" fails for pretty much every selling point it has
. carter is nto a likable character
and you really don ' t care if he gets revenge or not
. the action sequences are nto at all exciting or original
. the enemies
annd thier massive conspiracy are not threatening at all
( c ' mon
, you know who ' s going to win eveyr brawl
and shoot
- out
and car chase
)
. in the end you don ' t feel nearly satisfied with thte results
. the filmmakers did a good job in donig everything as unoriginal as possible
.
* the city is never mentioned by name
but i assume it ' s seattle since all the cars have washington license plates
and it ' s always raining
.