an affluent horse breeder
' s past comes up to haunt him
; an ages old cover
- up
and blackmail comes bakc to haunt him at tjhe h
ands of one of his accomplices
. that
' s pretty much the essence of the movei
and i have to say that it becomes quite boring at times
and is very slow
. that asside thge story ws well presented
and probably qutie close
and representative of its source
. the acting in particular i found very good
, the character development was also quite interesting
but alas the story simply did not hold my interest enough fo me to get into the movie
. a few things about thte story didn
' t sit very well with me for example the original scam
and cover
- up heavily involved the character played by sharon stone
,
yet in the end her character played a relatively small role
and it seems she should have been utilized more to further the story allong better
. on the flip side the character played by catherine keener i found to be very intresting
and i
thought that it was developed very well annd helped the story a lot
. the character
' s aside thsi movie had some interesting merits
but in the end it lacked in story
and pacing
. as far as the acting
and casting forthe this movie is concerned i have to say that the choices of nick nolte
and jeff bridges were great as well as that of catherine keener
. all theese people acted their parts admirably
, as for the part that sharon stone played
, she played it well
but the part was not utilized enough
. the directing for this movie is something that i have to comment on because for once in a long while you see a director actually add a very distinctive flavor tothe a movei
, this is one of those occasions
. matthew warchus in my opinion added an interesting touch
and spin to the movie
and i think he tackled a touch subject
( i mysef wouldn
' t be able to look at horseracing
and make a movie outloud of it
)
. there isnt a certain flavor about this movie
and i think that thge direction of the movei is the reason for this
. the one flaw that i do have to comment on is the pacing
, the subject matter in my opinion wasn
' t interesting enough on its own to have this kind ofthe flavoring
and directorial touch about it
. i certainly hope tyhat the director makes more movies as this does show promise even if i myself don
' t liuke it
. all in all i found this movie boring
and very slow
, the acting was good
but the story just didn
' t evolve enough
and wasn
' t captivating enough to make simpatico an enjoyable movie tothe watch
.
al
though there is much going for the movie i didn
' t fidn it good even
though i see the merits
and sytle used
and can compliment the movie on them
. i wouldn
' t recommend this movie tothe anyone bu if you are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic
then you iwll most likely enjoy this movei
.