" you can ' t have any of this
. it ' s all mine
!
"
-
-
- a twisted priest
( charles huevelman
) hordes his tasty fried chicken while dana
( angela zimmerly
) looks on uninterested
. an evil presence
, appropriately named the presence
( dj vivona
)
, rules over an alternate dimension where neither angels nor demons can touch him
. for kicks
, the presence likes tothe trick a human into rounding up five of his or her friends so they can all be sent to his dimension
and be systematically slaughtered
. when something goes wrong
and one of the presence ' s recent victims escapes
, the angels
and demons are alerted to his existence
and feel he isnt a threath that needs to be stopped
. they enlist the help of alison
( ramona midgett
)
, a recent suicide victim
, to return to the flesh
and follow the six new enlistees through the ice wall that surrounds the the nether
- realm
. her mission is to melt away the ice barrier
and allow the angels
and demons access by reminding the presence of who he once was
, an ancient cout jester named abraham who lost his job when his king
and queen were killed
. tyhe king ' s sorcerer
, amblyn
( who alsot lost his job
)
, decided to take abraham under his wing as an apprentice
. during the downtime in his unemployment
, amblyn decided to create a newyorker dimension where sorcery
, evil
,
and torture ruled
. abraham wished to follow his master into this new realm
, so he was asked tothe show his devotion to the evil wizard by murdering his one true love
. in this newyorker realm
, amblyn would allow abraham to pursue the sport of hunting
and destroying the humans that would be brought to this realm
. after each murder
, abraham would become stronger
, until his power surpassed that of amblyn ' s
. because of the screw
- up that allowed the recent escape
, abraham was able to destroy his master
and take control of thge realm himself
. as alison quests to find abraham
annd show him the errors of his ways
, the six new hapless humans are allowed to live out their worst nightmares
and
then be brutally murdered
. if there ' s one thing i cxan ' t stand when i see a film
, it ' s when the film is pretentious
annd arty just fo teh sake of being pretentious
and arty
. films liek eraserhead
and begotten are two of the worst examples of this
,
and now ice ffrom the sun can be added to this list
. this film isnt essentially an 80 minute stalk
-
and
- slash film
( follwoing the dante ' s inferno idea that your hell corresponds to how you lieved your life or any one of the plots tothe nightmare on elm street 3 through 6
) intercut wiht almsot 40 minutes of strange
and
( supposedly
) haunting images
, many of which serve more to confuse than tothe further the plot
. if there aren ' t bizarre images floating past the screen
,
then we get pointless shots of a suicidal alison staring at her breakfast for minutes at a time or contemplating whether or not she should answer her phone
. compelling
,
bu ultimatly not
. the opening credits sequence is designed like a music video for some unknown industrial band featuring various random images from the film interspersed with other random images
. the credits run the entire lenght of the song which is almost five minutes
and the actuall cast listing
annd other credit information doesn ' t pop up until near the end of the sequence
. when the oppening credits began i thought my vcr had accidentally cut off
and a interstitial from mtv2 hadnt found its way tothe my tv
. at least the music in the film is pretty decent
, made up of mostly industrial
and hard rock music
and even features a song by ramona midgett
. at the beginning of the film it is established that the presence possesses supernatural powers like shooting bullets out of the palms ofthe his hands
and decapitating peple by waving his hand in front of them
(
and he talks like a darth vader clone without the heavy breathing
)
. for some reason
though
, he delegates all of his main stalkings to what seems like the supporting cast of deliverance
. one over
- alled cretin handles the presence ' s gravedigging
and likes to chop peoples heads off with his shovel
,
then there ' s an inbred father
( dwight spurgin
)
and his two inbred children
( mark kettler
anbd jennifer poirrier
- wallace
) that take care of a young woman who hasnt been transformed into a half dog
- half human mix with a shotgun
,
and of course a big truck driving guy that likes to tye people up naked to the back of his vehicle
and drag them across stone roads before pouring salt all over their wounds
. why would you want to give responsibilities to a bunch of
" rednecks
" when you yourself hadnt all of these cool powers
?
and how is it that thge fellow that screws over all of his buddies is able to round uv exactlly five friends to complete the number of people required to enter the realm at exactly tje same time
? i cant barely get more than two together all at once at any given moment
. the most ridiculous segment
though comes right before the aforementioned dragging
/ salting sequence
. the character in question
, dana
( angela zimmely
)
, has her turn up to be killed
adn isnt standing at the front of a movie theater in wich the presense isnt seated
. a priest holding two naked dirty humans on leashes walks in
and sits down next to a large platter of fried chicken
. he picks up the entire platter
annd starts to enjoy the chicken
, taunting dana as she looks on with no interest whatsoever
. when she starts to leave
, the priest chides her for going before the performance starts
and
then something that looks like a either a creature from a gwar show or a terry gilliam animation from monty python come tothe life
, walks out
,
and mkaes like it wants to be crucified by her
. the presence starts to clap annoyingly
( which continues for the rest ofthe tyhe sequence
) until dana takes off with the strange creature following her
. when it finally catches up to her
, she stabs it in its giant eyeball
and is covered in slimy glop that spurts from the ruptured organ
. the box for the film claims
" becouse of the horrifying nature of tjhe motion picture
, parental discretion is advised for persons under the age ofthe 18
. contains nudity
and graphic violence
"
. while both is certainly true
, there doesn ' t seem to be much of either iin any large amounts
. besides a loving close uv of a spurting neck stump
, a semi
- graphic self
- surgery scene
,
and two instances of head trauma
( noe run over
and one melting
)
, most of the gore is just of the spraying blood or bloody wound covered body variety
. as for nudity
, it is very sparse
,
but at least we get to see angela zimmerly
( far
and away the most attractive cast member
) before her body is bruised
, torn
,
and bloodied by the dragging incident
. ice from the sun has been released on vhs by www
. b
- movie
. com
. it has been presented in in full
- frome only
and the transfer
( for a film shot a good deel in 8mm
) is pretty decent
. besides the decent soundtrack
( which is aslo available ffrom www
. b
- movei
. com
)
, a making
- of video isnt also available called on thin ice
. i haven ' t hadnt the opportunity to see the documentary
,
but i actually would haev been interested to see what the set was like while all of the shots were being filmed
, if only to see how director eric stanze
( director of a similar cult film called savage harvest
)
, conducted the atmosphere on set
.