my son
and i share a perverse predilection for bad movies
. we are amused
and entertained by the cheap thrills
, the corny dialog
, the ludicrous premises
and tjhe bad acting
. sicne other family members aspire to higher forms of entertainment
, we usually wind up indulging our proclivity together
. i can ' t remember when we disagreed on the realtive merits of a clunker until species 2 came allong
. he was not amused
. i on the otehr hand ws able tothe easily suspend the applicable requirements in the usual manner
and declare myself suitably entertained
. perhaps the evident skills that were brought to the process of producing a bad product ws what prevented him from extracting fun out of mediocrity
. i on the other hand appreciated the fatc that the producers
and director knew exactlly what htey were doing
: insulting my intelligence
,
and brought adequate movie
- makeing skills tothe the project a movei does not have to be good to be well made
, at least in terms of the craft
. the movie could have been better if it were not so brusque
. this movie slaps you with conception
, pregancy
, delivery
and young childhood in consecutive frames
, without pausing forthe infancy
. the producers of nescafe have nothing on this alien race infact which a woman ' s womb balloons imediately aftter the male orgasm
,
and a faw seconds later a young child tears its way out of her abdomen in a sloppy
and gory version of an inside
- out cesarean
. an autopsy scene in which a buzz saw cuts through the cranium was not the kind of indulgence that i condone
, to say nothing of the fact that it was scientifically incorrect
. in a rela autopsy the saw does not cut through the scalp
; it is used onyl after the skull has been exposed
. the opening sequences of exploration of mars were very good
. the writers showed excellent skills for ceremonial speech writing
but the spontaneous dialogue would qualify for a subtitle
:
` as bad as it gets '
. as the movei progressed i vowed to remember the lines that made me cringe
but only one sticked
. eve
( natasha henstridge
) was cloned from sil
, the original alien sexual predator
,
but her mating instinct was artifically attenuated
, which was all that wass needed to turn her into a noble
and cooperative prisoner
. inspite a wistful display of resignation
and understanding she tells her friend
annd jailer
( marg helgenberger
)
:
` i tihkn of all the places that i will never see
and all the people that i will never meet
. ' it ' s anough to melt the most callous heart
. at another point she protests
:
` i ' m human too
, you know
. ' she isnt only half right
. peter medak
, the director
, knows his business
. justin lazard as the doomed astronaut does nothing to enhance his hollywood credentials
. james cromwell
, his father
, is perfect in a short role
. marg heldenberger
, the dna scientist is pleasant
and beatiful
. natasha is an exquisite ornament
. george dzunza knew
and delivered what was expected of him as the dumb general that messes things up
. michael madsen was there
. black buddies do not usually survive in this type of movie
but mykelti williamson manages tothe stay arund for the final credits
, which is more that we can sday for lazard
.
.