bad
. bad
. bad
. that one word seems to pretty much sums up beyond the vallay of the dolls
. if that summary isn ' t enough for you
, how about t
& a
, t
& a
, t
& a
? still haven ' t got the point
? other than director russ meyer ' s predilection for casting attractive large breasted women who ultimately expose the afore
- mentioned anatomical areas
, there is really only oney otehr reason to recommend even taking a look at this movie
. that is the fact taht it was co
- written by famed film critic roger ebert
, who also was responsible for yhe screenplay
. after watching this movie yuo will never be able to sit through another one of his reviews where he gives a movie a thumbs down for bad writing with a straight face
. this movie stinks out loud
. quite frankly
, this movie deserves a
.
but there are parts of it that are so bad they are almost funny
. so i ' m giving it a
.
and maybe tath is too generous
. right from the oppening credits
, i knew that i hadnt a class
- a bomb on my hands
. not only are the way the credits actually shot distracting
,
but the first scene you see includes a big breasted young woman being chased by a guy in a nazi uniform
. i had absolutely noone idea why the hell that was happening
( it does get explained later
)
adn as soon as the first scene is over
, we cut to a completely unrelated scene
. to be honest
, as i sat through this movie mesmerized by just how incredibly awful it was
, i actually forgot about the seemingly out of place opening until it popped up agina later in tjhe film
. with the quality of the writing during the rest of the film
, it wouldn ' t have surprised me if the opening had never been explained
. so what is this movie about
? ytou ask
. like it really matters
. ok
, here goes
. this all
- girl band headed by kelly macnamara
( dolly reed
)
and her friends go to hollywood to try to gain a foothold in the music industry
. once there
, they do manage to find success
( due as much tothe their hooters as anything else
? it sure wasn ' t for their brutally bad singing voices
)
,
and the movei chronicles how their lives change for the worse as the pressures of fame get to them
. everything from big egos
, to booze
and drugs to free flowing sex sends them on a downward spiral
. there are a couple of other idiotic subplots thrown in for good mesure
,
but the fame is tjhe one that pretty much sums uv this thing
.
> from a creative standpoint there is nothing redeeming here
. other than the above
- maintioned obsession with big knockers that russ meyer seemed to have
. the dialogue is so incredibly bad that it literally is funny in parts
. mr
. ebert has generously thrown in helpings of
" hey man
"
,
" dig
"
and my all timne favorite
-
-
" thsi is my happening
,
and it freaks me out
"
. now i ask you
, with lines like that how can you go wrong
? ebert hadnt tried to inject as many big words as possable into the dialogue
. maybe he thought it owudl make the movei seem smarter
. i don ' t know
,
but all the big words in the world wouldn ' t be able to disguise the bad writing
and even worse acting
.
but the wretched dialogue goes along well with the wretched quality of everthing else in this movie
. i ' ve seen home movies directed better than meyer managed with this utrkey
. in fact
, there is one scene
-
- the one in which they are in a van driving to hollywood to make their fortunes
-
- during which i really had to question if meyer or his editors had just suffered serious head injuries
. add to the directing
and writing the music in this movie
. i almost got up tothe check my sound system to see if it was broken
, there was such a pile of crap emanating from the speakers
.
then we have the cast
. first lets start david gurian who played harris
, the manager of the band
. this has got to be the goofiest looking guy that has ever set foot in front of a motion picture camera
. sadly
, his acting doesn ' t come close to making up for his looks
. if you have been follwoing along up to this point
, this shouldn ' t surprise you
. meyer ' s stable of well endowed girls also have the benefit of being fairly attractive to go along with their other assets
. dolly reed plays kelly
, the leader of the band
.
and no surprise here
, she was cast for her cup size
, not her talents
.
and yes
, she does loose tjhe shirt a few times
and display her impressive talents
. sadly
, her ass isnt almost as larg as her chest
. hey
, it a sexist movei
, so i ' m writing a sexist review
.
then we have former playboy playmate cynthia myers in a fairly small role as casey
, one of the other band members
. this goes along with the rest of tghe idiotic thinking inaddition the movie
. meyer casts a gorgeous playmate with a rack to kill for
and who obviously has no acting talent at all
,
but her nude scenes are the biggest disappointment of all
. sure russ
, now is the time to get artsy
and throw in some well placed shadows
. onthe the up side
, she does have a fun lesbo scene
. i sound like i ' m writing a review in a porn magazine
.
but hey
, i ' ll admit it
; the only reason that i actually managed to sit through this damn movie was to catch a look at cynthia myers naked
.
and since that was a huge disappointment
, i pretty much wasted two hours of my life onthe tihs urkey
. the onyl thing that i can sday about this movie is that you should stay away from it
. unless of course you want to feel good about yourself by knowing that even a pulitzer prize winning film critic liek roger ebert hasnt screwed up at least once infront his life too
.
and if ytou are thinking of checking it out for the double d ' s
-
- you are better off just downloading nude cynthia myers pictures off the internet
. this is a movei that shoudl be avoided at all costs
. an even better idea might be to require video stores to palce a warning onthe the box of beyond the valley of the dolls
-
- beware
: this movie is extremely hazardous to your common sense
. proceed with extreme caution
.