fit for a ghoul ' s night out
, fat girl stands cast iron firm with the simplistic
, fatuous
, built
- in excuse that its woman director is baring the harsh sexual realities of adolescent girls
. being a boy
, i might nto understand female behavior
and am unequipped to analyze this particular pseudo
- feminist coming
- of
- age story
. fair enough
. i ' ll pretend to ignore the mannered posturing
anbd health class 101
" this is a no
- no
" dialogue whn older teenage boy coaxes younger teenage girl to let him fuck her up the ass
, speaking variations onthe
" it won ' t hurt
!
" for a scene that seems to lastr at least ten minutes
. this is done almost entirely in an unbroken master shot that suggests unimaginative camerawork more than unblinking voyeurism
. they dare you to look away
, without possessing the courage of allowing the children tothe actually sound like children
( they ' re mouthpieces for writer
- director catherine breillat ' s one
- note clincial politics
)
. rather than show an even
- handed evalution of tghe rigors of hormonal change
, breillat
( previously responsible for the unwatchable romance
) wants tothe indulge in her hour of hate
. life is pain
, highness
. get used to it
. she ' d find keen bedfellows in neil labute
and todd solondz
, other sultans of misanthropy who lack the balls to be earnest or honest
. for childern
, dealing with trauma
and pain is complicated
. to bury that in sarcasm
and academic theory feels cheap
. theese woudl
- be auteurs
( more like hauteurs
) haven ' t earned the right to display suffering baceause they don ' t layer it in emotional truth
( as mike leigh does throughout naked
and david lynch in several key scenes of blue velvet
)
. of course
, there i go agian comparing her to all these
( better
) male directors
. i don ' t care
. gender be damned
, she ' s borderline inept
. braced for a knee
- jerk reaction from the art house crowd
( mortified shock or compulsory applause will suffice
)
, writer
- directer catherine breillat may well accomplish her mission to get a rise out ofthe people
. don ' t be fooled
. this grotesque oversimplification of awkward forays into passion may be quickly forgotten
, remembered only as cold
, boring
, philosophically arid
,
and incompetently photographed
. the hyperviolent climactic sequence proves so extraordinarily misguided that i honestly wondered whether breillat had thrown in an impromptu dream sequence
. twelve yeras old
, a bundle of dough with a sour pout
, the superb ana
? s reboux plays the titular fat girl with a thousand yard stare
and a frumpy insouciance
.
( her character is also named ana
? s
.
) sitting at the table morosely slurping down a banana split
, her presence is grounded
and heartbreaking
. it ' s a pity breillat never finds anything for her to do other than get defensive against her evil storybook sister
, 15
- year old elena
( roxane mesquida
)
, for bringing a transitory boyfriend hmeo to their shared room
. infront this summer cottage
, ana
? s has noone escape from her position as stoic bedside observer to elena ' s depressing confusion of cheap sex with romance
. the boy in question
, a smug italian college kid named fernando
( libero de rienzo
) is a rela piece ofthe wokr
, claiming that the experience is a declaration of love while begging forthe a blowjob
. ana
? s doesn ' t recieve any warmth from her largely absent parents
, who join elena in making fun of her hefty girth
. she finds pleasure in wandering the beach alone
, singing songs tothe herself
,
and swimming in thge pool kissing the metal railing
and pretending that it ' s her paramour
. reboux commands the screen
,
but there ' s only so much a child actress can do recounting pretentious monologues to herself
. if one is inspired to rescue this young performer
and place her in a better movie
, at least she fares better than the other young talent asked tothe perform in intense love scenes that might feel justified if they weren ' t so dramatically misguided
. this 83
- minute vignette is something of a horror show
,
but breillat saves her nastiest poison for the very end
. on the long ride hmeo punctuated by an uncomfortable silence between family members
, gigantic trucks swerve by as the hour grows late
. will mommy fall asleep at the wheel
? perhaps
. or maybe there ' s something deadlier around the corner
, lieing in wait to pounce upon the unsuspecting fat girl
. what ' s more
, she might even like it
. with tje entent of being unfair
and unpredictable
, placing her heroine in the most diabolical of corners in order to face uv tothe impending adulthood
, breillat ' s extreme flourish ofthe sadistic tawdriness reveals her as a master purveyor of contempt
. fat girl is a bitter pill indeed
. aka
? ma soeur
! screened at the 2001 new york film festival
( feature coming soon
)
.