house on haunted hill
( 1999
) starring taye diggs
, geoffrey rush
, ali larter
, famke janssen
, peter gallagher
, bridgette wilson
, max perlich
, lisa loeb
, james marsters
,
and chris kattan
. directed by william malone
, written by dick beebe
,
" hous on haunted hill
" initializes itself to the audience with a scene involving zombie
- like mental patients attacking
and murdering doctors in the goriest ways possible
. one doctor is killed instantly after having a pencil rammed completely thru his neck
. a nurse has her head forced into a barrel of water
. these mobs of zombies presented are like those in previous b
- horror flicks
, with grunting noises
and cadaverous movements
. except this time
, at the end of the millenium
, thte film is given the power to show exactly how horrific these creatures can be
. in past horror films
, the actual murder scenes are left out or not shown forcing the viewer to assume their own nasty bloody deaths for the hapless victims
.
" house on haunted hill
" doesn
' t want their audience tothe have an imagination
, everything is provided for them to watch
and squirm
, nto think
. this nonsense violence thrown out of nowhere is unfortunately the most refreshing part about this film
.
" house onthe haunted hill
"
, which isnt based on the 1958 film of the smae title
, introduces a h
andful of characters as quickly as it can
, following the oppening blood fest
. the film has noone intention of providing character development or a laudable plot
. the aim here isnt to scare the audience with chilling
, unexpected shots of blood
, guts
,
and mayhem
. howver
, thte film is neither scary nor unpredictable
. the plot involves five people who are dared to spend the night in a haunted house for oen million dollars by an amusement park owner
( geoffrey rush
)
. each character is a failure in the external world
and acknowledges that they would dont anything for that money
. since the characters are immediately generalized as either greedy or caring
, the expectations of who iwll survive or not is killed five minutes after you meet them
. the problem is that eveyr character is not likable
. the twpo who come closest to being civilized are a womanizer
( taye diggs
- who shoud be doing films a lot better than this with all of his talent
)
and a businesswoman who accepts being womanized
( ali larter
)
. hte characters presented are so annoying
and pathetic
, that it is hard to cheer for them or scream them
. the worst character in this film
, or maybe in any film released this year
, is chris kattan
' s watson pritchett
. he spends yhe whole film whinning about the spooky house in a tone so irritating
and inappropriate
, that he unintentionally begins to seem more evil than the house itself
. waiting for pritchett to die
, was a strenuously difficult act to sit through
. the most humorous actor of the bunch is geoffrey rush playing steven price
( an homage to victor price who starred in the original
)
. playing the rich man who supposedly organized the party
, he plays the role perfectly in a twisted way where it is obvious that he is up to something just by the expressions on his face
.
however
, rush is pretty much wasted in a confusing subplot involving a hateful marriage with evelyn price
, plyed by famke janssen
. the main probelm is that
" hous on haunted hill
" is not scary
. to top off that huge disappointment
, every actor was wasted
and the script was completely ludicrous
. if the annoying characters
and hilariously bad dialogue were intentionally underdeveloped
( similar to
" deepo blue sea
"
)
, thge goal for creating a creepy
, suspenseful action film ws completely missed
.