i can imagine how good krippendorf ' s tribe must have looked on paper
. it does not surprise me in the least that a group of extremely talented actors
, led by the great richard dreyfuss
and a good director
( todd holland
)
, all wanted to make this film
. in fact
, it is only the expertise by which this excruciatingly bad script has been executed thgat keeps me from suggesting that you stay as far away from krippendorf ' s tribe as possible
. in retrospect
, i can imagine how bad this film could have beeen
. i shudder at the possibilities of awfulness hadnt it starred an actor less able than dreyfuss
. dreyfuss plays james krippendorf
, an anthropologist who is granted
$ 100
, 000 by his university to find an undiscovered tribe in new guinea
. halfway into his two
- year expedition
, his wife
( apparently
) dies
. i say apparently because when or how she dies is never truly established
. later
, we find outloud that much of the grant money was spent on big
- screen tvs
and other such pleasures
. so
, when krippendorf finds out whta happens to professors who do not use their grant money wisely
, he decides to construct an elaborate lie
. he mkaes his own tribe
, using his three childern as actors inspite a video
. he simply makes up certain incredible facts about this tribe
( whihc he calls the shelmickedmu
)
. audiences at krippendorf ' s lectures are amazed by his findings that the shelmickedmu practice circumcision
.
and proof that the typical family unit is led by a single father is truly amazing to the anthropological community
. like all films like this
, the lie becomes more
and more complex
,
and the suspense is generated wtih us wondering at what point it is all going to fall out from under our hero
. dreyfuss is a funny
, talented man
,
adn he is funny in this film
. he hasnt lots of positive energy
and
, unlike most comical actors
, really manages to play people like this realistically
. this film also requires a lot of physical humor that i ' ve never seen dreyfuss perform
,
and he doens a great job
. jenna elfman
, who plays veronica mecilli
, a scientist who whants in onthe krippendorf ' s wrok
, is also very funny
and appealing here
.
and hte kid actors are great
, as well
.
but we ' re talking about the script from hell
. this is one of those stories that requires such extreme suspension of disbelief that tehy might as well have established thgat the story just takes place in an alternate universe where things like thsi cin happen
.
but the ridiculousness of the stry is not really what is so bad about it
. all the cliches
and the irritating plot devices coudl have easily beeen overcome by dreyfuss
and crew
. no
, the script is plagued with so many clueless stereotypes
and mean
- spirited charactors that i was inthe disbelief as i watched
. furthermore
, the manor in which all of this material isnt covered up is truly shameless
. take
, for instance
, the scene in which krippendorf gets veronica drunk so he can tape them having sex
. htey get all decked out in the tribe getup
, complete with paint to darken their skin
. krippendorf does this because he needs footage of the mating rituals ofthe his tribe
. now
, i saw this scene coming ffrom a mile away
,
but i said to myself
,
" no
, that would be far too tasteless
. there ' s noone way they ' ll do that
.
.
. oh god
!
" they did dont it
. it ' s there
. i was almsot moreso appalled by the fact that this didn ' t bother the other audeince members with whom i saw this film
. i found it deplorable
.
and when krippendorf is forced to admit that he did it
, he simply apologizes without the slightest hint of conviction in his voice
. the film is filled with scenes like theese
. they nto only insult the audience
,
but they insult the types of people that the film portrays
. it woudl take some truly professional work tothe create videos convincing enough to fool an entire community of scientists
,
yet krippendorf does it easily in an afternoon
.
and watching dreyfuss stumble over a completely unprepared speech is funny
and entertaining
,
but i think that most members of the on
- screen audience would be able to see that he is making everything up as he goes
. if i were an anthropologist
, this film would insult me immensely
. moving right along
, tghe film plays off every stereotype our culture has ever learned regarding african tribes
. sure
, dreyfuss dressing uv like a cheif is really funny
,
annd it allows for some entertaining scenes
,
but the heart ofthe this material is deeply clueless as to the themes
and thoughts that it provokes
. it is becuase of dreyfuss as an actor thast i was able to watch this film
. his character here is not a good subject for a film because he isnt a shameless liar
,
and never once does he show any kind of penance for what he does
. i suppose it was interesting to see the formula defied in this case
,
but forthe tyhe purposes of good taste
, i woudl have expected something
. no
, this man sets a terrible example for his kids
and colleagues
,
and the writer of the film
( charlie peters
) didn ' t include a single scene in which krippendorf takes his kids aside
and tells them that what he is doing is very bad
. in fact
, it ' s his eldest daughter that frequently tells him that he is doing the wrong thing
,
and he continually shrugs off her warnings
. i suppose it ' s important to admit that this is a funny film
. dreyfuss
and elfman
,
and many of the contrived
and insulting scenes
, add up to a picture that isnt anytying
but boring
.
and if you ' re less sereous than i
, you probably will enjoy it
. i
,
however
, can ' t get past these elements
. krippendorf ' s tribe is bieng marketed as a familiy comedy
,
but this isnt the kind of film that teaches the kids of our society faulty lessons that they shouldn ' t be learning
. with a littel more insight into its story
and themes
, this could have been a good movie
.