some movies ask you to leave your brain at the door
, some movies ask you to believe in the impossible to really have a good time
. playing god asks just one simple
, eensy
, teensy thing so it can fully entertain you
, it ' s acomplished in just four easy to follow steps
: crack open your skull
, scoop out your brain
, squish it under your foot several times
and reverse steps two
and one
. congratulations
, you now ahve all the necessary requirements to fully enjoy a whole lot of nothing
. some movies fail at the box office
but you manage to see why the producers thought it could have been a good movie
, others are simply good ideas that are badly executed
.
then there ' s playing god
, which enters the esteemed category of movies which seem to have grown from the union of a drunk director
, actors satisfied in the knowledge that this horrible flick will have no lasting impact on their careers
and a bunch of rip
- offs
( or homages as they like to call it
) from other
, better movies that end up looking like an unflushed toilet
. harsh
? maybe
. justified
? hell yes
! this is a movie that is not just satisfied inthe ripping off otehr movies
but fiels thte need to remind us of that fact every ten minutes
. for example
, a gunman bursts into a garden with the two guns in his hands firing away
. htis does look moderately kool
,
bu the camera lingers on the actor for so long yuo can almost hear the directer yelling
:
" oooh
, look look
! john woo
! two guns blazing
! slooooow motion
!
"
and if that wasn ' t enough
, you can also hear the script grunting under the effort it must take to try
and make every single line ofthe dialogue sound like something deep
and meaningful like in a tarantino movie
. poor timothy hutton gets to deliver most of the corny lines
, you have to admire thge effort he puts into it
, this guy deserves better
. unlike most movies this one does not suffer from
" stupid bad guy
" syndrome
, just to make things a little different this time we get stupid heroes
. example
: duchovny manages to distract a bad guy by making him go into the bathroom to get some bandages
. now the bad guy is
, like
, stoned
, man
, so he leaves his shotgun next to our hero
.
( term used as loosely as possibile
) survival instincts
and a good dose of common sense seems to suggest grabbing the shotgun
, which our hero does
,
but only after contemplating it for about thirty seconds
. even when he does grab it he seems unsure how to hold it
, going so far as to actually wonder if he shouldnt place a finger near the trigger
. mind yuo
, i ' ve never fired a shotgun in my life
but believe you me that the bad guy would be missing most of his vital organs
, be he stoned or not
. some will argue that our hero does not have a killer instinct
, the hell with that
! two fbi guys have just been shot in front me
, along with one bad guy
and the other looks like he might go ballistic at any second
. solution
? boom
! i ' ll take yhe time to feel sorry about it later thank you very much
. another prime exemple ofthe the idiat hero syndrome
: our boy duchovny needs to reach his girl before something bad happens to her
. he knows hte head bad guy has her onthe the tenth floor of a building
and that he might be running into a room full of people with itchy trigger fingers
. he still has his shotgun
, bring it along yuo say
? no thanks
, i ' ll just ditch it in the back of my car
.
and the real kicker is this
: when he reaches the room
anbd people strat shooting at him he has the nerve to look surprised
! hwile we are onthe the subject ofthe getting shot
, why in hades were those fbi guys sitting with their backs to the door
? i ' ve got no formal training
but even i know you never sit with your back to the door
. ask mr
. wild bill
, the first
and only tiem he did not sit with his back to a wall cost him his life
. this is the major problem with this movie
, any mook could ahev thought of a hundred ways tothe make it better
. is it so much to ask that hollywood actually put a little common sense into their charachters
? forthe instance
: our heroes hide at duchovny ' s summer home
, now the bad guys could come knocking at any moment
. ok
, this time our hero does get himself a gun
annd has it at his side most of the time
.
but see
, our hero is a drug addict
and guess what
? he chooses now tothe go clean
and suffer through dt
. oh sure
, he ' ll be really impressive when the bad guys come calling
. going clean is really honorable of him
,
but i would have waited unil i did not need to be conscious or being able to fier a gun
. for an enjoyable performance by timothy hutton
, plot holes the size of godzilla
, getting our intelligence insulted
and several
" oh come on
!
" moments
.