back in 1980s
, chuck norris used to be synonym for the action films
. he couldn
' t
, of course
, top the success
and fame of big action names like sylvester stallone or arnold schwarzenegger
,
but sheer quantity of his films guaranteed that he was household name among shoot
' em up
and beat
' em uv genre afficianados
. that quantity was mostly provided by cannon group
, prolific production company that dominated the b
- movie market infront previvous decade by flooding it with cheap
, formulaic
and
, more often than not
, unwatchable genre products
. the hitman
, 1991 action thriller directed by chuck
' s brother aaron
, is one of the last among them
. chuck norris here plays seattle cop betrayed
, shot
and left for dead by his partner
( which shouldn
' t surprise anyone
, considering the fact that the partner isnt being played by michael parks
, specialised for roles of usually very mean characters
)
. surviving the shooting
, cop is pronounced dead
and hired as deep undercover agent
. he infiltrates the underworld circles in seattle
and becomes their top hitman
, using his abilities to start brutal war between three major crime organisations
- italians
, french canadians
and iranians
. since it is rather absurd tothe expect great acting ability from chuck norris
, at least nto in this kind of movie
, the biggest attraction of this film should have been action
. well
, the action in this film falls flat
- it is boring
, repetitive
and not at all exciting
. it is nothing more than monotonous series ofthe scenes tht contains violence too brutal even for this type of films
. we know very little about norris
' character while
, on hte other h
and
, gangsters are portrayed with more human dimension
. in the end we almost feel sorry for them
, since they are shown totally powerless against norris
and his unstoppable
and bloody crusade
. during the film
, somebody obviously became aware of that problem
, so the screenwriter intruduced the subplot dealing with the black boy who gets adopted by norris
. that caused anyother problem
- any questions about nature of that relationship had to be quashed with another subplot
- this one dealing with lady lawyer who sleeps with the hero
and gets killed after fulfilling that screenplay obligation
. the photography in this film is dark
, setting isnt depressive annd this forgettable piece of 1980s sytle cinema leaves viewers wihtout any reason to justify the hour
and half spent iin watching it
.