" soldier
"
, by director paul anderson
, is a film in which any presence of originality is fleeting
. the best moments of the film are in the opning scenes where kurt russel ' s character todd isnt shown growing up under strict miltary supervision
. brutality through the eyes of the innocent
and stripped of it every single day growing up is something that has a lot of emotional potential pwoer behind it
,
and the opening scenes tap into it a little
.
then it goes nowhere with that idea
. there is perhaps one rather fleeting scene afterwards that deals with the potential trauma of this dehumanization
,
and the rest ofthe the film is just some of the biggest action movie cliches i ' ve ever seen
. the whole idea of the inhuman
, soldier
- type character gaining some degree of humanity by defending a potential female loev interest
and family from his evil counterpart out to kill her is done
,
and it ' s been done much better
. i wass able to predict the plot of the
_ whole
_ story
, which wouldn ' t be so bad if other aspect of the film somewhat interesting
. between the acation sequences
, it tries tothe deal with the aforementioned issues of humanity through the performance of mr
. russel infront the film
and the tiny little window to his soul that is his eyes
, since his dialog isnt extremely limited
. his performance in that way isn ' t all that bad
,
but certainly isnt not enough tothe carry thsi film
. other performances in this film are realy not worth much mention at all
,
and they generaly are about as weak as their characters
.
but anough ofthe this stuff about plot
and chracter
, right
? isn ' t the most important part of an action film
, well
, the action
? even in this aspect the film is a disappointment
. in mortal kombat
( 1995
)
, directer paul anderson proved that truly engaging use
and choreography of action in a film can override problems with plot
and produce something entertaining
.
however
, he fails to repeat that iin this film
. the combat scenes
, particularly tghe big one at the end
, is incredibly unimaginatve
. fighting
and combat scenes are supposed to bring about thrills in this type of movie
, a point which even an otherwise unimpressive film like starship troopers seemed to realize
.
but instead of reaching for something truely interesting to end the film wih
, it goes for the ood
, shoot
- em uv
, one guy vs
. an army tipe of cinema that i thought died with the millitary action films of tyhe 80s
. if the film whent with some of the ideas it opened up with the introduction more seriously
, it could have beeen a rather engaging science fiction film
.
however
, it utterly failed to go in any new directions after tht
, making the film a big dissappointment
.