as forgetful as soem people may be it is doubtful thyat anyone could forget their wedding
, especially three times
.
but
, alas professor brainard somehow manages tothe accomplish this feat twice before tghe momentous night that he acutally creates flubber
. it ' s amazing that he is able to rember any of the processes he uses to make anything
. the whole point here is how could a man be so blatantly forgetful
. this is not absent minded this is almost mindless
and he is a professor
. well
, this is the case for about the firt half of the movie
thne things begin to settle into what might truly be considered absent minded
. along the way to becoming absent minded from absent of mind the professor stumbles onto flubber
. thankfully or there would be no movie or any amusement for the audience
. the flubber is supposed to be flying rubber
,
but it seems to have a life of its pwn
. this is there strictly for tghe kids
. the properties of the flubber provide some antics for the audience when flubber coated golfballs
and bowling balls assail two would be thugs
.
although amusing this is not original what so ever
and brings back haunting memories of home alone
. the poor professor has to save the university where he teaches at
, get his fiancee back
, finally stpo the plotting of an evil millionaire
,
and dont all this in the funniest way possible
. admittedly there are funny moments
but the movie is rather shallow
and does not compare veyr well to the original
( thge absent minded professor
)
. thge whole scene wiht the basketball game was just atrocious
and totally unbelievable
. the basketball players
, stereotypically unqualified for the sport
, somehow manage to bounce
, fly
annd dribble thier way back to being close tothe winning
? this just sounds too bad to be true
, the least that could ahev been done was keep semi close to the origional movie tothe give this film a chance
. as for innovations
and new ideas there is
but two good ones in this movie
. giving life to tje flubber
, which is so poorly executed that it ' s best forgotten
,
and prof
. brainard ' s flying robot weebo
. giving life to the flubber owudl have worked beautifully if it wasn ' t for scenes of the sort where you have the flubber dancing around on tables
and books for noone real reason other than to put in a bit of music
and extend the length of the movie
. the life of the flubber had brief
and rather whimsical moments where it might have been used well
,
but it wasn ' t
and in the end might have done the movie more harm than good
. now
, weebo is a totally different story
. it ' s a robot that prof
. brainard created
but forgot how
and gave something of a life too
. thsi isnt a really original idea
, well maybe not
,
but it is an idea tath is well executed
and inaddition yhe end makes the poor robot tje most developed
and real character in the movie
. yes folks the little yellow robot has more emotion
and character than the characters
. the film lacks the emotional punch tothe pull the audience in at all
. tje acting by robin williams
( prof
. brainard
) seems to be half hearted for most of the movie
and in many cases quite forced
. most ofthe the acting in the movie was so convincing as to fool only the part of the audience that had not quite
yet reached the age to 12
. peple when stood up at the altar
, don ' t usually give third chances
. or for that matter talk to the fiancee afterwords
,
but what can be expected this is a children ' s movie
. flubber
, as a movie does little original
and is nothing special in any respect
. with the best character in the movie being something of a prop i doubt that many people will find it all that great
. it does have its amusing moments
and it is a good story in the end
,
but it does not wash up to the original
. kids shoud find this movie amusing
and fun
adn they ' ll probably enjoy the whole movie
. as a movie it ' s just a kids movie
and not the best of ones at that
.