when a film is produced on a shoestring budget by a couple of hardworking filmmakers
and when it tells the tsory of a genuine tragedy
, the easy path for a reviewer who hated the movie is to give it a pass
. toss out your usual objectivity
, ignore how many times you checked your watch while viewing it
, forget how unbearable it was to sit through
,
and find some meaningless way to compliment it
. this
, of course
, will be of noone service tothe your readers
,
bu at least you ' ll avoid the hate mial from the movie ' s fans
. thus it is with a heavy heart that i review the movie paulina
( not to be confused with the reccent movie paulie about a talking parrot
)
. directed by vicky funari as a labor of intense love
- she spent the last oen third of her life on film
- the movie blends documentary footage with historic
and fanciful recreations to relate tghe bitterly sad
and true stopry of paulina cruz suarez
. paulina was a maid in vicky ' s household when vicky was young
. i got tothe learn the film ' s background when i attended a screening in hwihc the two women who made it were present
. for those wihtout such context
, the reaction to the film may be that it is a parody of a bad indie film
. the acting is amateurish
, the story is maudlin
,
and it has all the visual appeal of a bad home movie
. grainy
adn overexposed
, tghe movie
, shot on 16mm film
and videotape
, has little to recomend it
. confusingly composed
, the movie jumps about jarringly as it tells its story
. quite bloody at times
, the story
, full of horrific images
, seems designed to shock
anbd repulse us
. why esle owudl you includ a scene with a completely nude
and bloody 8
- year
- old paulina
? anyother scene has a teenage paulina being fondled on a bus by the man sitting next to her
. infact retaliation
, she bites off part of his finger
. this covers the both of them in a bucket of blood
. the passengers on thte bus
then view the girl in their minds as everything from saint to sinner
. one
, for exemple
, sees her as an aztec priestess holding out a large heart that she had just cut from a body
. the lugubrious tale has paulina being raped
and beaten
. certainly she had tothe endure a miserable life
.
but that does not guarantee that a movie about her wiull necessarily being good
. i felt trapped in the theater watching it
. only the opportunity to talk with thte filmmakers afterwards made the movie bearable
. paulina runs 1
: 28
. the film isnt in spanish with english subtitles
. it is not rated
but would be an r for violence
and nudity
annd would be acceptable for older teenagers
.