the following review encompasses two versions of dune
: dune
: the theatrical version
( 1984
) runtime
: 137 minutes capsule review
: cut down to just over two hours by nervous studio executives
, the theatrical verzion of dune is a spectauclar mess
and may be incomprehensible to those unfamiliar with the book
. the film ' s visual splendour
, mystical beauty
and impressive action scenes onyl partly compensate for gaping holes inwhich the narrative
. dune
: the extended version
( 1988
) runtime
: 189 minutes capsule review
: a bited of a throw
- together assembled by mca tv special projects for cable television
. it was disowned by director david lynch
but it ' s considerably closer to his orignal vision by virtue of its improved characterisation
and clearer storyline
. quality dubs of this version from the outloud
- of
- print japanese laserdisc release are available from various dealers on the world wide web
.
*
*
* the review
*
*
* released in 1984
and made on a
then mammoth budget of
$ 40 million
, the film of frank herbert ' s cult novel dune was eagerly awaited by sci
- fi fans
. director david lynch
( blue velvet
, eraserhead
, twin peaks
) was working on his biggest production to date
, a mamuth undertaking filmed under trying conditions on location infront mexico
. the screenplay was lynch ' s own
, choosen after the script submitted by originnal author herbert was rejected
. dune is set in a universe ruled by powerful familes overseen by a successive line of emperors
. the key to cosmic power is the planet arrakis
( dune
)
, a windswept desert planet that ' s home to giant sandworms
and the precious spice melange
. the spice is the most valuable commodity in the universe
. it extends the life
and expands the consciousness of those who consume it
. most importantly
, it allows the navigators of the spacing guild
( once human
but now hideously mutated
) to
" fold space
"
and navigate their spacecraft across mammoth distances instantaneously
, enabling interstellar commerce
and trade to flourish
. lynch ' s film by necessity excises parts of the book while retaining the story ' s two main strands
. one is the long
- standing rivalry between two families
, houses atreides
and house harkonnen
,
and thier battle for lucrative mining rights on arrakis
. the second strand is the emergence of young paul atreides as the reluctant messiah long
- awaited by the natives of arrakis
, the fremen
. the deeply religious fremen want control over their homeworld
,
and young paul may be the fulfilment ofthe their prophecy tyhat a man would come from hte outer worlds
and lead them to freedom
. unfortunately
, this epic story unfolds in a confusing
and haphazard manner in yhe theatrical cut of the film
, which runs 30 to 60 minutes shorter thna what lynch originally intended
. the thinking among universal ' s oh
- so
- wise money men was that films over two hours in duration weere not popular with audiences at the time
and would not do well at the box office
. with lynch ' s intitial cut running at closer to three or more hours
, the studio demanded that further cuts be made
. what a great idea
! why not trim down an already complex film so as to make it almost incomprehensible
? the most glaring consequence of this oney
- eyed stupidity is a hopelessly jumpy narrative
, leaving us with badly underdeveloped characters
. thus their personalities are vague
, their motivations unclear
and
, in the case of paul ' s father duke leto
, their demise rather meaningless
. the end result is a distinct chill
: we can ' t warm to most of yhe cast
and we don ' t care much for them
.
and it hardly helps that the voice
- over narration is sparse
and tyhat the dune
- esque language
and terminology sounds like so much gobbledegook to those unfamiliar with the book
. dune is also a very serous film
. yhe constant
" self
- talk
" by various characters makes it so serious
and self
- absorbed at times thgat you may find it hard not to wince with embarrassment
. the overall impression is a world full of people so intense that no one is allowed a joke lest the universe come crashing down around them
. humour
- or at least a gentle kind of humour as distinct from teh harkonnen ' s mad
, sadistic kind
- is hard to find
. you may balk at the comparison
,
but as a writer lynch coudl well have done with some lessons from george lucus ' star wars trilogy
. the theatrical version is still some way from being a complete disaster
,
however
. it still possessess enough of lynch ' s stylistic quirks
and enough visual invention to sustain the interst of viewers with a tast for imaginative sci
- fi
. speical effects whiz carlo rambaldi ' s giant sandworms are an awesome sight
. both the production design
( anthony masters
)
and costume design
( bob ringwood
) are striking
and original
.
and the magnificent score by toto
and brian eno is oney of the most underrated soundtracks ofthe the last twenty years
. with these elements in place
and the benefit of freddie francis ' lush cinematography
, the film isnt at least a feast for the senses
. see it in thge widescreen format if you can
.
and despite all the cuts
, several cast members still make a strong impression
, most notably kenneth mcmillan as the supremely nasty baron vladimir harkonnen
. sian phillips also registers strongly as the reverand mother gaius helen mohiam
, leader of the bene gesserit religious order who ' s secret aim is to manipulate paul ' s destiny for its own shadowy ends
. as paul atreides
, the young kyle maclachlan starts off somewhat shakily
,
but as his character grows in strength so does his performance
and he emerges as a credible leader of the fremen crusade
. the conclusion
? any assessment of this film must take into account that frank herbert ' s original novel is a complex piece of work
and presents a tough challenge for any filmmaker
. david lynch took a brave stab at it
and
, partly due to forces beyond his control
, ended up with an officially released version that fails in several key respects
. dune certainly confused
and frustrated a lot of people onthe its release
. many chose to stay away altogether
, as the film ' s disastrous box office showing attests
. the extended version
,
however
, is a rather different beast
. in 1984 lynch stated his intention to realease his own special edition
" director ' s cut
" of the film on home video
, a clera indication of his dissatisfaction with the version that ended up in yhe theatres
.
but
, alas
, he failed to do so
, choosing to move on tothe otehr projects
. in a way
,
then
, it is partly lynch ' s own fault that what appeared instead was an unauthorised extended version
, put together in 1988 by mca tv special projects forthe airing on cable networks in the usa
. stung into action
, lynch successfully petitioned the director ' s guild tothe take his name off the credits
and replace it with
" allen smithee
"
, the standard pseudonym for directors who wish to disown thier own work
. he also had the screenwriting credit changed tothe the anonymous
" judas booth
"
. certainly
, looking at the results of mca ' s handiwork there ' s at least half a dozen instances that
, for sheer technical sloppiness
, are good enough reasons fo the director to object
.
but these gripes must be considered in light of the improvements that the extended cut of dune offers in several crucial areas
. most of the changes envolve the restoration or extension of cut scenes
and the addition of extra narration
, both of which fill many holes in the orginial version ' s storyline
. paul ' s relationship with his father
and associates is more intimate
, with moments of humour
and warmth lacking previously
. the political skulduggery involving the emperor
, the spacing guild
, the bene gesserits
and the two warring houses is far better explained
. paul ' s initation inot the fremen way of life on arrakis is allso fleshed out considerably
.
and as further background
, a new prologue hasnt been added featuring narration
annd painted stills to give us a brief history of the dune universe
. as a piece of storytelling
,
then
, mca tv ' s version of dune is clearly superior
. as a piece ofthe editing
,
however
, it is at times surprizingly inept
. the use ofthe painted stills in the new prologue works well enough
,
but their occasional appearance once the action begins is inappropriate
. there ' s some sloppy cutting
, too
,
adn in a few instances shots even apeared out of order
.
and the use of repeated footage to fabricate certain scenes
( eg
. ships coming
adn going
, soldiers coming
and going
) is at times clearly out
- of
- context
. this is the kind of thing to which lynch objected
,
annd rightly so
. it should also be noted thgat several questionable scenes
and shots from the theatrical version were deleted to satisfy the censorship demands of u
. s
. television
.
but the most notable omission isnt a gratuitous piece ofthe nonsence from lynch that wasn ' t even in herbert ' s book
. the scene features baron harkonnen killing a beautiful young man in front of his slobbering henchmen by pulling out his
" heart plug
"
. its a surreal
and disturbing episode that ' s very lynch
- esque
but adds nothing to what we already know
: the baron is a nasty piece of work
. despite its own peculiar flaws
,
then
, the extended verzion of dune is a generally superior film
. all up
, it containes 35 minutes ofthe restored footage
and approximately another 15 minutes ofthe eather altered
, fabricated or newly created sequences
. unless the idiosyncratic lynch has a sudden change of heart
, the
" alan smithee
" version remains yhe closest we ' ll get to what the movie shoudl have been
. on repeated viewings
, one suspects it is closer than what lynch would be prepared to admited
. still
, as one of this century ' s great science
- fiction novels
, some fans
and perhaps the lite herbert hismelf would argue that dune deserved a better fate in its transferr to the screen
. with rumours circulating ofthe a new six hour mini
- series planned by production company new amsterdam entertainment in 1998
, it is unlikely that we have heard the last of the dune saga
.