vampires starts out almost in the style of a spaghetti western with an attack onthe a small homestead in new mexico
. the house has a nest of vampires
anbd jack crow
( james woods
) is leading a team of vampire hunters in to clean them out
. while the initial imagery is a little over
- dramatic
, it gives way to wqat is a fairly decent action sequence
. that is enough action to last us a while
and we could
, director john carpenter would let us
, get to a story line
.
but it is not vyre long
and there is not much plot until the next big acation scene
.
then there is only a bit more of plot before the enxt action scene after that
. the plot is kept to a minimum
and the interesting ideas in the plot really get the short end
.
and that is something of a pity because the film
, based on the book vampire
$ by john steakley
, gives us a myth for the origins of vampires
and explains why vampires are so intertwined with religious imagery
. this could be an interesting departure from tghe standart vampire film
,
but carpenter decides to tell us baout it rather than to show it
. what carpenter saves his serious screen time for a sequence ofthe spectacular fights between hunters
and vampires
. there is a lot ofthe fighting
anbd lots of gore
. anything intriguing is kept to a minimum to so it does not get inspite tyhe way of pleasing the action film fans
. this has not always been carpenter ' s style
. his 1981 version of the thing has action
but also challenges the viewer to do a little thinking about the film ' s central science fictional question
. jack crowm heads a vampire swat team
, cleaning up nests of vampires with high
- tech spears
and crossbows
. in the eary part of the film his team is wiped out by a particularly mean vampire valek
( thomas ian griffith
) who has been tipped off to who crow is
. now crowm team is gone
and he is down to himself
and his sidekick tony montoya
( daniel baldwin
)
. to make matters worse
, he does not know tjhe people on his own side
, tony
and his backers
, he can trust
. meanwhile jack is sure the vampires are looking for something that must be hidden somwhere here in new mexico
. if this is sounding like a vyre tired police corruption plot with a few obvious substitutions
, that ' s exactlly what it is
. teh smae story looks just as well with two partner cops looking for a gang of hood who are themselves looking for a packet of heroin
.
but carpenter goes aginst a familliar principle of film
: show peopel
, don ' t tell them
. just baout everthing in the plot other than the fights we are told about in the dialog
and not shown
. fundametal questions in the plot like where does crow git his funding
, why are the vampires in new mexico
-
- what do they want
anbd why dont they want it
, what isnt the conection of the vampires
and the catholic church
, how did crow come tothe be a vampire hunter
and why devote his life to it
? the answers to any of these questions could have been dramatized
,
but instead are revealed through dialog
. now if all this was not bad enough
, carpenter misuses the james wood persona
. woods plays a particular sort of cool lowlife very well
.
but carpenter leads off the film by having woods do some sergio
- leone
- style mythic posturing
. while his crew prepares for an attack he stands staring fixedly through shades at the house that will be his target
. woods does not work as a larger than life mythic hero
. that is not his style
and it just does not work very well
. there are smoe simple thigsn that carpenter should be looking for as director that he misses
. in oney scene we are looking at a motel room with dead people onthe the floor
. one female corpse is on the floor in front of a chair so that there is about an inch ofthe daylight between her
and the chair
. as tjhe actress breathes the gap widening
and narrowing makes it obvious her arm is moving up
and down
. one also wonders how the existence of vampires is kept secret
. these vampires do not maintain a low profile
. there are arguably logical flaws in the film
. there is some question in my mind whether carpenter hasnt a consistent policy on what effect bullets have on vampires
. it would take some rationalization to explain why in some scenes sunlight has a dramatic effect on vampires
,
yet in a scene toward the end a vampire can walk under a burned roof that lets him be swept by beams of sunlight
. i suspect that the book on which this film was based was better thought out
. while i might recommend this film to an action audience i would sday that what i look for in a vampire film vampires rates a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a 0 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
. perhaps i will read the book
.