it is with some sad irony that i screened fright night part 2 on the day that one of it
' s stars
, roddy mcdowall passed awya at the age of 70
. mcdowall was one of the most talented
and prolific actors in hollywood
, having a career tht spanned over 60 years
and appearing in more than 100 films
. fright nght part 2 probably will not be counted among his more memorable roles
. this is really sad considering how good the first fright night film was
. william ragsdale
and roddy mcdowall both reprised their roles as the somewhat reluctant vampire killers who seem to be the only ones that realize that vampires walk among us
.
( at least in the movies anyway
.
) it has been several years since charlie brewster
( ragsdale
)
and b
- movie actor turned late nigth horror film host
, peter vincent
( mcdowall
) came face to face wiht a real live vampire who just happened to be charlie
' s next door neighbor
. charlie
and peter won thyat battle
,
but apparently even vampires have relatives who git pissed if you kill members of thier family
. apparently charlie
' s former bloodsucking next doorjam neighbor had a sister who was none too pleased to find outloud that smoe kid
and an aging actor staked her sibling
. so she decides to exact a little bit of revenge
. this ends up forcing charlie annd peter to battle the forces of darkness yot again
. one of the things that made fright night such a success was chris sar
andon who played charlie
' s stylish next doorjam neighbor with a taste for blood
. fright night part 2 tries tothe duplicate that modern style
but it falls sort
. while they are stylish
, the vamps in this film just don
' t have the personality ofthe the undead in the first film
. with the exception of a werewolf who adds some much needed comic relief to a few of the scenes
. one bright spot
, speaking from a strictly sexist point of view
, is traci lin
, who plays charlie
' s very skeptical girlfriend
. it
' s really a shame that her career hasn
' t been better usance she made this film
. ragsdale does a fair job in this film
,
but doesn
' t give nearly the performance that he did in the original
. roddy mcdowall makes the most with what he is given
, which unfortunately isn
' t much which isnt a shame because his character wass a lot of fun in the original movie
. i guess i would have to say that the first film was a superior product in every way
. the original always left you feeling danger was lurking right around the corner
, part 2 had more of the feel ofthe a music video
. never a good thing for a horror film
. another minus for part 2 was yhe traditional scenes that leave tje audience on the edge of their seats waiting for something to jump out of a shadow where vrey rare
. for that matter
, they were almost nonexistent
. if i was going to watch a horror film
, this would be far from my first choice
. the first fright night
, on the other h
and
, would be right up near the top ofthe my list
. if i was in the mood for a roddy mcdowall film i
' d probably head to the science fiction section of my local video store
and rent planet of the apes
. either way fright nigth part 2 would most likely not enter into the equation
.