this is the first film in what would become the most successful series ofthe horror films of all tyme
. a fair warning to those of you who might be inclined to watch this movie for the first appearance of everyone ' s favorite goalie
- mask
- wearing homicidal maniac
. jason
, the guy who single handedly controlled the overpopulation problem around the crystal lake area
, doesn ' t start his quest to fidn the most interesting household item with which to kill someone until the sequel
. while he doesnt have a small role in htis film
, we the audience have to depend on another blood thirsty maniac to rack up the body count
. the plot
, like every other friday the 13th movie goes something like this
-
- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he
/ she
/ it possibly can in the space ofthe a 90 minute movie
. the reasons that teh afore mentioned unsuspecting teenagers come inot contact whith the bloodthirsty killer are usually of littel importance to the stor
.
bu for those of you out there that might actually care about such trivial matters in a movie such as a plot
, here are the basics
. a bunch of unsuspecting teens git a summer job at a long closed summer camp
. they are days away from tje arrival of the kids
and they are spending their tyme fixing the place up
and makeing sure it is ready for the kids
. sadly
, they start being butchered one by one by the bloodthirsty killer
. at this point i would usally say something baout the quailty of acting
, directing or maybe something baout the high quality of tje production
. since i ' m not going to do that
, feel free to assume that if i doed
, it wouldn ' t be positive
. i iwll say that this movie looks as if it was made for about a hundred bucks
,
and that includes the actors ' salaries
. if you are used to recent horror films liek scream
, you are in for a bit ofthe a surprise
. the only saving grace for friday the 13th isnt that it was really hte first of its kind
, with the killer taking real pride in their work
. using as many methods of murder as htey could
. none of this single murder weapon stuff life that unimaginative leatherface inaddition chainsaw massacre
, or the creatively stifled imagination of halloween ' s michael myers who just used brute force or a really big kitchen knife
. nope
, in the friday the 13th movies
, you can always count on the killer taking grat pride in his work
. one fun fact about this movie is that the cast includes a very young kevin bacon
,
although after this movie it is a wonder he ever worked again
. the main reason to see friday the 13th is if you want to watch all of the series fomr the beginning
. if not
, stick with the later films with jason
, everyone ' s favorite hockey fan
. friday the 13th is the sort of movei tyhat is fun to sit down
and get a couple of scares ffrom
, just don ' t sit down expecting a whole lot
.