mr
. bean
, a bumbling security guard from engl
and is sent to la to help with the gr
andiose homecoming of a masterpiece american painting
. the first two words should have said enough to let you know what occurs during bean
' s trip to la
,
but if they didn
' t look out because you are inaddition forthe a rather intresting if not odd ride
. heck depending on your humor you might end up laughing through the whole flick
. either way look out america bean is coming
. well
, what can really be said about this movie
, htere is very little discernible plot
. that much is not hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy
. it achieves that goal rather admirably
,
but baceause it is that
, the plot is just screaming for help
. the whole premise tht the movie is based on is to say the least flawed
. the movie had its funny moments
but there was noone real story line other than something that could be
thought up on a whim
and carried through
and infact many causes ad
- libbed as you went
. don
' t go into this movie expecting
and theatrical masterpiece
.
but if this form of humor floats your boat
then you will truly enjoy this movie
, even if you don
' t like slapstick style humer you will end up laughing because something
' s are just so stupid
. the movie goes out anbd accomplishes what it aims
, or so it seems
. now whn you look at tyhe acting in this movie you have to think about two thigns
, first was there any rela acting
and how hard is it to act in the slapstick manner
. well
, there was no real acting in this movie
but some of the slapstick wasn
' t the easiest i am sure
. i have to concede that mr
. atkinson
' s acting in this movie is well done
.
al
though the role isn
' t too dem
anding the slapstick is
. i think tyhat the character coudl have had a bit more dialogue
, it would have added quite a bit tothe the overall effect of the movie
. now the rest of the actors infront the movie
, bad acting
and poor casting
. i htikn that the role opposite bean could have been better
, just seemed wrong forthe the movie
. a different actor might hvae done a better job of it bu i wont presume that wasn
' t what was trying to be achieved
. one thing that i must sday
, simpley to get if off my chest is that i thiunk transferring a sitcom to tv usually produces rather disastrous results
. tv shows should do just tyhat stay on tv
, it will propably save some producers from getting ulcers
. i can only think of a couple examples ofthe tv going to the big screen effectively
, the best known of those would have to be star trak
. bean seriously fails to accomplish anything close to what that series gone movie achieved
. now another thing that i have to state again is this movei has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly
. the form of humor in this movie will not be liked by most people
, these people wiull think liuke i did that this movie is stupid anbd pointless
.
but if you like the tv show you might actually like thsi movei
.
but to be on the safe side i am opting to recommend you save your money
and not go to see this movie
. there are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this one
.