a silly film tyhat tries to be a black comedy
but plays more like lightweight comedy
, with its main asset being a beautiful film location along spain
' s mountainous coastline
. howard pigeon
( jeff goldblum
) is a 40
- year
- old mineral water salesman who is married for 13 years tothe a wife constantly nagging him
, elizabeth
( mimi rogers
)
. after a surprise birthday party for him
, where his wife bawls him out for coming lite to his suprize party
, he confides to his best friend that he can
' t st
and it anymore
,
and
then tells him his plan to kill her while vacationing in the same barcelona hotel where they spent theri honeymoon
. jeff is going through a severe mid
- life crises
, worried that he looks older than his age
. he incessantly talks to hismelf
, mostly agonizing over his bitter marriage
and chastising himself why he went out wih elizabeth for a second time
,
and
then why he married her just because she laughed at his jokes
and was attractive
. he stutters annd acts like a man who has lost his confidence
. things change on their vacation
, as elizabeth makes an effort to be nice while jeff now becomes the grouch
. he nervously rehearses his murder plan in the hotel room
. by accident the gun goes off
and into the pillow where he imagined elizabeth would be sitting
. when other hotel guests
and staff come to check about the gunshot
, he nervously explains that it was teh tv
. realizing how unworkable his plan is
, he places the gun in tghe shattered pillow
and throws it into the ocean while he waits for elizabeth
.
but elizabeth foudn his behavior odd during the entire trip
,
and when after a great deal of effort tothe get a reservation at the hotel
' s 5 star restaurant he insists on eating in the room
, she decides she had enough of him
and checks out without telling him
. as a result
, he goes to the police to report her missing
. while with the police
, a telegram comes from his wife saying she left him
and is going away because she wants to be alone
. his boss adn all those he works with are sympathetic to him
,
and he gets a job promotion
. bu soon the pillow withthe the gun is fished out of the water
, giving the police cause to arrest him adn search his home
. there they find letters he has written incriminating him to the murder
. the police also find out from the hotel staff baout the gunshot heard in his room
. in jail
, things look bad for him
. no one believes him
, including his friends
and lawyer
. his boss fires him
and the papers haev a field day with the headline stry
: pidgeon
: a jailbird
. out on bail
, he realizes that his only hope is to track down his wife
. through a call placed on his credit card
, he tracks her down to a mountain resort
. once there he learns that she took a hike up teh steep mountain
and he gets a priest to be his mountain guide after telling him the true story
. the film is watchable just fo the antics of the jeff goldblum comic performance
. he is someone comming apart by the seams
, hwile mimi rogers is his perfect foil
. it was mostly pantomine humer
, with the comedy charged in the changing facial expressions of the characters
and the absurdity of the situation
. a very minor farce that might appeal to tjhe sitcom crowd
. the film just didn
' t take its situation seriously
and the story had many gaps in it
, so it had no chance for black humor to develop
. it instead palyed its set
- up of the henpecked husban acting out his fantasy strictly for entertainment value to see how many chuckles it could draw
.