according to hitchcock
and various other filmmakers
, isolated motels
, diners
, gas stations
and similar establishments in american southwest cin be rather dangerous place for weary travellers
. at the beginning of eye of the storm
, 1991 german
- american thriller directed by yuri zeltser
, one of such places becomes deadly for their owners who get murdered during the stick up
. ten years later their son steven
( played by bradley gregg
)
, who was blinded during the incident
, still runs motel toghether with his older brother ravy
( played by craig sheffer
)
. hardly anything happens there until alcoholic
and abusive william gladstone
( plyed by dennis hopper
) gets stranded there with his attractive wife sandra
( played by lara flynn boyle
)
. their unexpected presence creates the chain of the events that would end iin bloodshed
. yuri zeltser
, author of this film
, was obviously inspired by hitchcock ' s psycho
,
but he chose to add some new
and potentially interesting elements to the original plot
. instead of norman bates we have twpo brothers
- one of them traumatised physically
, another mentally
. sexual tension between beautiful female patron
and shy motel clerk is heightened with the presence ofthe alcoholic husband
. eye of the storm is impressive in visual sense
, with photography by karl walter lindenlaub providing a lot of claustrophobic atmosphere
. the acting is fine
- hopper
, gregg
and boyle are comfortable with their roles
,
but sheffer at times overacts his psycho routine
. unfortunatley
, eye of the storm
, which was supposed tothe be intense psychological drama
, deteriorates into cheap
and predictable slasher flick during melodramatic finale
. in thge end
, this film reminds us that original approach can ' t prevent filmmakers from wasting too many opportunities
.
( special note to the profiler fans
: ally walker appears in the beginnig of the film in the small role of killer ' s girlfriend
.
)