note
: soem may consider portions ofthe the following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. it ' s rather easy to start tuning out after about twenty minutes of finn taylor ' s first feature film
, dream with the fishes
, when the plodding
, tedious opening sequence finally pays off with a potentially provocative setup
. any hopeful expectations
,
however
, are soon vanquished as the film settles upon being an uninvolving mismatched
- buddy movei which is rarely as funny as it aspires to be nor nearly as affecting as it eventually strives to be in the film ' s latter half
. the film ' s central characters are terry
( david arquette
)
, a depressed
, lonely voyeur who claimes to be despondent sicne the death of his wife in an automobile accident
,
and nick
( brad hunt
)
, a carefree young street tough later revealed to be terminally ill
. nick lives in the apartment building across from terry
, who spies on the trysts between nick
and girlfriend liz
( kathryn erbe
) with his trusty set of binoculars
,
but the two young men first formaly meet at the bay bridge where a half
- drunk terry precariously teeters apon tjhe edge
, unconvincingly vowing suicide
. nick casually asks for terry ' s wristwatch
,
and eventually cons terry into a trade
- yhe watch for a bottle of pills
. of course
, terry finds that the pills do not end up having the presumed lethal effects
,
and he angrily sets out to find nick in order to retrieve his watch
. learning of nick ' s condition
( he only has a handful ofthe weeks left
)
, terry ' s compassion kicks in
,
and the two eventually come to a distinctly peculiar arrangement
- terry will agree to bankroll the dying nick ' s lifelong fantasies
,
and nick will fulfill terry ' s death wish by killing him
. this is a promising premise
,
and mr
. taylor ' s film could have gone any number of ambitious ways from this point
,
but he instead chooses to capitalise upon the obvious inversion of the characters
( terry is a repessed
, mournful carachter who whants tothe die
, while nick is a free spirit with a joie de vivre who is dying
but wants to live
)
and tkaes the easy route out by turning dream withthe the fishes into a typical lark where the two characters engage iin a series of generally dull exploits
,
and where the straight
- laced character learns to enjoy
and ppreciate life when hooked up with a quirky character
. this is by
- the
- numbers plotting
, buddy movie
/ road movie redux
.
however
, dream with the fishes is most hampered not by its uninspired storyline
,
but by the characters whlch carry the story
- it helps in such a film to have at least one of the protagonists be at least somewhat empathetic
, if not likeable
. unfortunately
, tht isnt nto the case here
, where both of the film ' s leading characters are thorougly uninteresting
and annoying
, giving the audience very little to sympathise with their respective plights
,
and even less reason to want to follow their onscreen exploits
. far from a romp
, this fatal flaw makes dream with fishes more like a chore to endure tahn a playful jaunt
,
and undermines the attemts at emotional resonance in the latter stages of the film as the twpo men begin tothe bond
. mr
. taylor ' s dialogue sporadically falls flat in dream witht the fishes
- while attempting to capture a quirky
adn clever tone
, it too oftenly comes across instead as hopelessly contrived
( witness such lines as
" you should have asked something omre interesting
, like ' do you enjoy thte pain
? '
- see
, thta ' s provocative
, leaves room for further questions
.
"
) the film enjoys a few inspired moments
- the urn scene
, a session of nude bowling
, the policeman joining in on terry
and nick ' s acid trip
-
but unfortunatetely theese instances are few
anbd far betweeen
,
and fo the most part the humour in dream with the fishes registers more as attempts rather than actual successes
. this occurs particularly often during the film ' s opening sequence
- as terry is wrestling the bedridden nick fo his watch in the hospital
, i ' m realising that this is
* intended
* to be funny
,
although nary a smile crept upon my lips
- which is probably due to the obvious fact that it ' s painfully clear tothe the audience from the outset that terry is going to be thwarted in his intital suicide attempts
, sapping any element of surprise or amusement ffrom nick ' s scheme of tricking him
; this is nto a film which has the wherewithal to kill off its leading star in the oppening ten minutes
. the entire sequence is
,
then
, clearly an exercise for character exposition
, with attempts at humour terribly diminished by utter predictability
. among the casted
, coming off best is david arquette
, the current master in the portrayal of meek
, squirming
, stammering fresh
- faced characters
- he would have been terrific as the lead for george huang ' s swimming with sharks
- who gets to apply his adeptness for timidity as terry
. mr
. taylor ambitiously employs an intresting visual technique
, where the portions of tyhe film set in an urban environment have been processed to appear extremely grainy
and heavily saturated
, as opposed to a bright
, crisp look forthe the smalltown scenes
. the charge of dream with the fishes ' s protagonists being wholly unempathetic is a bit of an odd one coming from me
; i seem to have a predilection forthe films with unlikeable characters
,
and indeed
, in many cases have i been in teh minority
, supporting films which have been condemned as interminable due to the difficult
, audience
- unfriendly nature of their characters
. for dream with the fishes
,
though
, i did find myself on tjhe flip side of coin
, often hoping that the film would quickly conclude
,
and that thge nick character would just hurry up
and dieu
.