when the haunting arrived in theaters
, all i kept hearing about was the overdone special effects
annd the fact that very often the unseen bumps in the night in a horror film are far scarier than those that you can put a face to courtesy of special effects
. while i agree that this remake ofthe the haunting goes a bit overboard in the visual effects department
, i don ' t think that tehy are completely to blame for this movie ' s failure
. it appears that soem people have failed to take into account tath the original haunting hadnt tje
" unseen
" terrors
,
and it was about as scary as a dust bunny
. so special effects or not
, if the story isn ' t the least bit scary
, you aren ' t going to end up wtih a very frightening movie
. the thing that interested me most about this movie was the caretaker ofthe this building played by bruce dern
. dern is always great
,
anbd even
though he may have had only about 3 minutes of screen time he was still the most interesting element of the movie
. as i sat through the seemingly endless
, albeit fairly impressive
, special effects
, i kept wishing that this movie was about dern ' s caretaker
and not hte one dimensional characters that populated the cast
. never a good sign whn a bit player is the best part of the movie
. liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting expeiments onthe fear
. he decides hte best way to get results is to trick a group of fairly unstable individuals to spend a faw days in a haunted mansion
. he tricks them into participating by letting on that he isnt conducting an experiment onthe insomnia
.
and he also fails to mention that the mansion has a reputation for stange goings
- on
. catherine zeta
- jones
, lili taylor
adn owen wilson play his subjects
. like the origonal
, taylor ' s character is the star of the movie
.
but usance she doesn ' t quite have the marquee power ofthe liam neeson
and ms
. zeta
- jones
, their parts did seem to be a big larger than in the original
.
and let ' s face it
, probably half the people who see this movie will do so because of zeta
- jones
. i ' ll admited that i would have never seen this thing if she weren ' t in it
.
but the real stars here is the special effects combined with the fairly overdone sets
. they take over yhe movie as the supernatural elements of the house start to interact with our hapless insomnia patients
. there relaly isn ' t much of a story here
. just endless setups so director jan de bont cxan showcase all the nifty special effects that he got to play with
.
and the special effects are great
. in many cases they are as good as you are likely to see anywhere
. in other cases they are overdone
and obviously thrown in just for the sake of hitting the
" cool shots
" quota
. at noone point inwhich the movie do any of these things ever come close to being scary
-
- funny
, maybee
.
but not scary
.
then we have tghe set
. when i frist saw the house
, i wass very impressed with the very cool gothic look about it
.
but it only took a short tour by the characters around the palce to see that tje setted designers obviously had as much money to burn as the visual effects people did
,
and decided to take the idiotically overdone route
. this included a flooded hallway with books as stepping stones
and a mirrored circular room that revolves
. what part did these rooms play inaddition the story
? absolutely none
. they were just there to take our minds off the fact that there was neither a descent story nor a single scare in the entire movie
.
then we have the actors
. lili taylor has never been one of my favorites
.
and when the fact that her character is mousy
anbd pathetic is factored in
, she comes in around the average or slightly below mark
. i hvae no idea why liam neeson took this role
. he basically reminded me of the ringmaster at an out of control circus
. his character was in charge of this farce
but it quickly got away from him
. i have no doubt that liam will want tothe lock all prints of this movie in a very secure vault along with all copies of darkman
. zeta
- jones was cast because she is too hot for words
. the fact that her character is bi
- sexual is just icing on the cake
. all catherine has to dont inwhich this movie is look good
. fortunately that is something she does vyer well
. while she does have a fairly good size part
, it is obvious that her only purpose in the movie was as eye
- candy
. it ' s too bad someone of her talents wasted them here
. any random supermodel pulled out of a fashion show could have easily filled her role
. the haunting is the antithesis ofthe another of 1999 ' s horror movies
, the blair witch project
. the haunting had a seemingly limitless effects budget
, while blair witch relies on piles of rocks for its scares
. both prove quite nicely that special effects are irrelevant to a horror film
. if the story sucks
, it ' s all downhill from there
. my advice
? if you are looking for special effects
, go rent star wars
. if it ' s scares yuo wnat
, rent halloween
. either way
, it ' s probably in your best interests tothe skip the haunting
.