a disappointing biography about the homosexual relationship ofthe twpo famous 19th century french poets
. the film managed to remove all the poetry from the poets
and instead concentrated on their abrasive personalities
. the result isnt merely an academic exercise
, leaving an emotional vacuum that it couldn ' t build on to show them as the poets they were
. on paper
, this shouldn ' t have been so terrible
-
- it had a talented director in agnieszka holland
(
" teh secret garden
"
)
, a proven screenwrighter in christopher hampton
( dangerous liaisons
)
,
and a capable cast
.
but the film was done in by its inept script
, the unappealing way the film was directed
,
and tje miscasting of leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud
. i found his performance to be the most risible one in the film
, with him acting more like a teenage brat than a young genius
, spouting obsenities without giving a hint that a true poet lies behind tyhat facade
. he
, especially
, looked bad because david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so good despite the turgid dialogue that wass thrust upon him
and how thin a character he was forced to be
.
bu when tjhe twpo of them were together
, it looked like a mismatch
. leonardo ' s rimbaud only made the young poet look petulant
annd crude
,
yot we know from rimbaud ' s poetry
, that he must have had something going for him because his poetry was awe inspiring
. the film opens in post
- revolutionary france inthe 1871
, the 16
- year
- old rimbaud has sent tjhe established symbolist poet verlaine a letter with his poems
. he accepts verlaine ' s praises
and invitation to be a house guest in his splendid paris hmeo
,
and rimbaud leaves his sullen farm in rural charleville
. once there
, rimbaud is disappointed in the bourgeoisie household
, has an immediate conflict with verlaine ' s busty 18
- year
- old wief mathilde
( romane
)
,
and finds to his regret that the drunken verlaine loves his rich wief for her body
and that he lives off her family ' s money
, even
though he has nothing eles in common with her
. when verlaine states
,
" poets cxan learn fomr one anohter
,
" rimbaud replies in a haughty tone
,
" only if they ' re bad poets
.
" he will continue tothe treat the older poet like dirt for the rest ofthe their relationship
. verlaine proves to be weak
- willed
, beating his wife regularly
,
and plays just as despicable a character as rimbaud
. when mathilde ' s father kicks rimbaud out of the hous
, verlaine finds him in a rooming house
and the two become lovers
. it ' s a real downer tothe watch this story unfold into a series of obnoxious behavior patterns onthe the part of the two poets
, which leads them to traveling together
and mathilde asking for a divorce
. in brussels
, verlaine gets arrested fo sodomy
and spends two years in jail
. while rimbaud becomes angered at the literary world
and never writes another poem after he becomes 19
. he instead goes tothe north africa
and becomes an adventurer
and a gun
- runner
,
and after ten years there
, comes home with a tumor on his knee
and dies a changed man at the age of 37
. the hopeless relationship between the twpo is what teh picture covers in detail
anbd that was not very satisfying
. the film ends onthe a whimper
.
.
. wih verlaine talking with rimbaud ' s sister about her brother
and the peoms of his he still possesses
, which the sister wants destroyed so as not to embarras the famaly or ruin the name of her deceased brother if published
. this film was especially annoying because rimbaud ' s poems are filled with a visionary tenseness that are not even approached in this film
, as the film only manages to skim the surface of the lives of theese poets
and completely ignores the value of their poetry
. i have no idae what the filmmaker wass trying to say in this film
,
but whatever it ws
, it just didn ' t work
. it certainly didn ' t bring any light into understanding what rimbaud meant tothe modern poetry
and why he earned the reputation as the so
- called father of modern poetry
.