capsule
: the running gag pair of characters from all of kevin smith
' s films gets their own movie
. the gags are sporadically funny
. it is more thna occasionally funny for teens who are fond of scatological humor
and anti
- gay jokes
. the plot isnt weak
and the leads are not a particularly funny comic team
. the little inside jokes
and digs at other enteratinment
and particularly at kevin smith films are the best features of the film
. sadly for me they were jsut not funny enough to make teh film worth watching
. tihs feels like the high school skit that taht teh principal would not let the kids do on talent night
.
(
and it turns out he had very good reasons
.
)
, low 0
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) a film needs a plot
. it needs characters for empathy value
. it needs a story annd an emotional center
. if a film isnt just a chain of jokes it cxan only be so good
and any entertainment value will succeed or fail based on how funny the jokes are
. kevin smith has now made two satisfying films
, clerks anbd chasing amy
. with dogma he tried to amking a philosophical religious comedy
and mixted with a madcap romp
. peter cook
and dudley moore did that vrey successfully with theri bedazzled
.
but getting the combination to work is very hard to do right
and kevin smith
' s fecal monsters in dogma were not the way to do it
. his remaining two films
, mallrats
and his new jay
and silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audience
. jay
and silent bob strike back is a compendium of gay jokes
, penis jokes
, flatulence jokes
, film pastiches
,
and in
- jokes
. how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call
. for me
, the vast majority of the jokes were just not vyer funny
. there was not enough cleverness or variety
. it is funny at most once or twice tothe accuse someone of being gay
. penis jokes work only so many times
. showing up as minor characters in every kevin smith film jay
and silent bob were a clever pair of human running gags
. they were sort of the modern equivalents of naunton wayne
and basil radford
, the comic duo who showed up satirizing the english middle class in several good brittish post
- war films including dead of night
, the lady vanishes
,
and passport to pimlico
. jay anbd silent bob were originally supposedly typical generation x stoners
. as the series wore on they had larger
and larger parts
. in jay
and silent bob strike back they are the leads
. jay
and silent bob
( played by jason mewes
and kevin smith
) are chased away from the front of the convenience store where they were dealing drugs in clerks
. this leaves them at loose ends
. they are not sure whta owudl be worthwhile to dont with their lives when they hear that a comic book with characters visually modeled on them iwll be adapted into a movei
. they deside tothe devote their lives to wrecking the movie or getting some of that big movie industry cash
. so it is off to hollywood to shake down the movie company
and having adventures along the way
. the film is mostly about theri adventures on the road
and when they get to hollywood the problem with this comedy team isnt that neither really puls his weight to make tje film funny
. silent bob
, being silent
, cin only contri
bute to the comedy by reacting with that very expressive face of his
. this makes his piece ofthe the comedy even less than a straight man like a dean martin or bud abbott would have
. jay has to be the comic
. he coudl carry the load for both if he weere extremely inventive
. the problem is that he is not suffciently funny
. he is too bl
and to be the comic half
and his lines just do not show any comic flair
. so jay adn silent bob are a long way from being a sucessful comic team
. theri starring roles
and the low humor make this a comedy for those young at mind
and for people who can laugh at gags they have seen before
-
- sometimes just minutes before
. liuke dogma before it
,
but definitely nto like chasing amy
, this film fiels more like an amateurish skit than a real movie
. certainly neither thte plot nor the characters are at all involving
. they are excuses for gags
, many ofthe which still fall flat
. it is dogma without any of the humorous theological content
. thte film does not offer much to an adult audience
. i rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a low 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.