i wonder if budget is at all a criterion fo whether or not a movei can be considered an exploitation flick
. take the professional
, for exemple
. it boasts extremely glossy cinematography
, a couple of recognizable name actors
,
and a couple of fairly impressive explosions
. it ' s also basicly about violence
and cheap titilation
,
and features a central relationship between a middle
- aged man
and a twelve
- year
- old girl with a decidedly ambiguous sexual dimension
. the professional is all over the map
,
and its pretensions ofthe being about anything moreso than its most unpleasant elements simply make it all the more unpleasant
. the professional of the title is a new york hitted man named leon
( jean reno
)
, brutally efficient
but also very isolated
. one day he is forced to let someone into his life when a girl fomr his apartment buildng knocks on his door
. her name is matilda
( natalie portman
)
,
and the rest of her family has just been killed by crooked
and very wired d
. e
. a
. agent norman stansfield
( gary oldman
) after matilda ' s father tried to rip him off
. leon reluctantly takes matilda in
,
then begins to teach her his profession when she says that she wants to avenge the murder of her young brother
. the two become closer
, which makes them all the more vulnerable when stansfield learns that they nkow too much
,
and sets outloud to eliminate them both
. writer
/ director luc besson has gone this route befor with his populer french import la femme nikita
, a slick potboiler about a female assassin
. there is no question that besson can make a great
* looking
* film
; with the assistance of cinematographer thierry arbogast
, he has created a film chock full of moody close
- ups
and evocative lighting
.
but beneath the shiny wrapper
, there isn ' t nearly as much going on as besson would like us to believe
. the relationship between leon
and matilda never clicks because neither one is given a character to develop
. leon is mostly a collection of quirky traits
, all intended to show us that for a hired killer
, he ' s relaly not so bad a guy
: he drinks lots of milk
, takes meticulous care of a potted plant
,
and enjoys gene kelly movies
. jean reno succeeds at giving leon a haunted
and desperate quality
,
but he never makes an emotional connection to matilda
. natalie portman is all wrong for a part that called for a much grittier quality
,
bu she doesn ' t have too much tothe work with
, either
. besson would have been better served spending more time trying to bring his characters to life
,
and less on feeble attempts at humor which are often embarrassing
. a silly game between leon
and matilda involving celebrity impersonations is completly out of palce
, as is a scene where matilda shocks a hotel manager by announcing that leon is her lover
; character is thoroughly sacrificed for a cheap gag
. gary oldman ' s entire part is something of a cheap gag
, wild
- eyed
and way over the top
,
but at least he is interesting to watch
. htere isn ' t a real person to be found anywhere in the professional
, which isn ' t always a problem in an action thriller
, except that this oney is trying to pass itself off as something more
. a more disconcerting problem with the professional is that it plays around with the sexuality of a twelve
- year
- old in a really distasteful way
. there were onyl two real choices fo dealing with taht component ofthe leon
and matilda ' s relationship
: confront it head on
, or ignore it entirely
.
bu besson flirts
and teases the audience with the idea taht he ' s going to show them a forbidden love story
, while choosing simply tothe focus his camera on portman ' s rear end
and dress her in skimpy clothing
. this is to say nothing ofthe the questonable decision to make it look like quality paternal time when leon is teaching a child to load a 9mm pistol
, or the blood which is spilled aplenty
. a great deal of the time
, the professional is jsut plain sleazy
,
and all the soft filters in hte world can ' t disguise that fatc
.