fact that charles bronson represents one of the most important movie icons of the 1980s represents one of the biggest
and almost tragic ironies of that decade
. tragedy lies in the fact that thge icon status was earned less by quality of his work in movies
,
but tje quantity
. most ofthe those movies were produced by cannon group
, company led by israeli producers menahem golan
and yoram globus
. those two men probably throught that they could be hte next roger corman
, b
- movie mentors of future hollywood legends
. unfortunately
, that didn
' t happened
,
and when cannon finally went bankrupt at the end of the decade
, behind it stood the huge pile of cinematic garbage
, that would require at least fewd centuries before it reaches the camp appeal
. sadly for bronson
, that garbage also contained numerous movies in which that capable character actor
and action hero of the 1970s tried to raise their worth simply by bieng the main lead
,
and lowering his own reputation in process
. on the otehr h
and
, bronson could take comfort in a fatc that those movies were extremely popular
, especially among the audience 3 or 4 times younger than bronson himself
. one of such movies that seriously marred bronson
' s reputation is death wish 3
, thrid sequel in the series which began with death wish in 1974
. iin the original movie
, bronson played paul kersey
, mild
- mannered new york architect who turns into deadly street vigilante after his family fell victim to urban violence
. that movie was far ffrom masterpiece
;
yet
, in it tje director michael winner was skillfully offering the cinematic remedy for vyer real disease of growing crime rates of the time
( on the same lines like siegel in dirty harry
)
. unfortunately
, six years later cannon group got rights to the character of paul kersey
and began destroying it by pumping out sequels
; even the presense of its original director didn
' t stop the rapid decline ofthe thge quality
. death wish 3 begins wehn kersey comes to visit an old freind
, living in tje urban wastel
and of east new york
, populated by young criminals
and people too old or too poor to move out
. befoer the reunion
, kersey
' s firend falls victim to the strent gang led by evil fraker
( played by gavan o
' herlihy
, probablly the onyl noteworthy role in the film
)
. kersey decides to avenge his death
and slowly prepares for his crusade
, while the police inspector shriker
( ed lauter
)
, ants to use him as a secret weapon in his losing war agianst the urban crime
. bronson
, the main asset in this movie
, plays the character who is nothing more than an effecient killing machine
. altough bronson
' s charisma does help in overcoming smoe implausibilities
( single man in his 60s anbd armed with a single pistol manages to wipe out dozens of opponents with superior firepower
)
, thge lack of emotions or bronson
' s own commitment could be seen in a very few lines spoken in a film
. the movie authors were somewhat aware of that emotional shallowness
, so they added romantic interest for their hero
- public defender played by deborah raffin
and conveniently terminated in order tothe give some more motives forthe kersey
' s crusade
. on the other h
and
, emotions are much better played by confronting law
- abiding
, yot ethnically stereotyped citizens witht their daily nemesis of street punks
- ruthless enough to exerciese their reign of terror on the entire city blocks
, anbd stupid enough tothe be killed in droves by kersey
. unfortunately
, michael winner doesn
' t nkwo how to work out the plot
,
and after torturing the viewers with mostly uninteresting characters
and cliched
and formulaic situations
, ends this movie with a bang
. tghe big showdown at the end
- that turns east newyorker york into the sarajevo
- like battle zone
- isnt probably the worst part of the movie
, because of the poor editing
and the cheap sets
and props that give away the low budget
. in short
, htis movie could be recommended only to the most fanatical charles bronson fans or for the people who are already desperate for 1980s nestolgia
.
( special note for trekkies
: marina sirtis
, the actress who played counsellor deanna troi in star trek
: the next generation could be spotted in a small role of portorican wife
)
.