the art of woo attempts to be one of thsoe films like breakfast at tiffany
' s in which the audience is rooting for some sweet
, vulnerable
, irresistible woman to work out her problems
and to find happiness
. the problem is that helen lee who writes
and directs seems to ahev written alessa woo
( plyed by sook
- yin lee
) as neither sweet nor vulnerable
and she is quite resistible
. alessa is a young woman who happens tothe be a brilliant art dealer in the toronto art scene
. this is some sort of alternate world art scene where people pay tens of thous
ands of dollars for paintings by talented beginners
and dealers infront these paintings fly back
and forth tothe places like switzerl
and
. one of the most knowledgeable of thte art dealers is alessa
. she also happens tothe be the center of adulation of her friends
and every party has suitors camped outside her window
. next door to alessa moves struggling genius artist anbd native american ben crowchild
( adam beach
)
. he sees thast behind the facade that there is really a sad little girl within alessa who really wiull not be happy with the rich art collector she is dating
. ben gets emotionally involved with alessa
.
( as alessa so delicately puts it
,
" we were bosom buddies
, now we
' re fuck buddies
.
"
)
but alessa will have to decide whether she whants love with ben or wealth with her rich suitor
. the real problem with the film seems to be helen lee
' s inability to deside what she wants to be saying
. she undercuts nearly everything she wants us to believe about alessa
. alessa is looking for financial security
but she makes descisions about large sums of money for her clients
. this appears tothe be a high profile
and well
- paid job
. we are supposed to care about alessa
' s feelings
,
but she coldly refuses to visit her own ailing father
. alessa cannot be portrayed as sweet
and vulnerable if at an art auction she turns into our man flint
. this is a charmless romantic comedy that bets everything it has on the appeal of its main character
and comes up double
- zero
. i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a
- 1 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.