i ' m giving tihs stinker
. normally
, the worst that i would ever rate a movei would be
.
bu the total waste of time that is blazing saddles is
, compounded by the fact that this movie is incredibly offensive
, helped me come to the big goose egg
. i ' m not sure what thge hell mel brooks was thinking wehn he made this thing
, or if he was even thinking at all
. maybe in mel ' s littel mind a horse being knocked unconscious because of a punch to the face is funny
. in mine
, it ' s not
. or maybe mel graduated from the spike lee school of filmmaking
. because only the self
- righteous lee uses the n
- word more often inaddition his films than brooks did in this one
. at least lee has the smarts to realize that nobody is going to find that term amusing
. brooks bandies it about like he figures the audiance will be rolling in the aisles every time they hear it
. wrong mel
! i would call ytou a boob mel
,
but that insults breasts everywhere
. this idiotic attempt at a comedy centers on tghe evil lieutenant governor ' s
( harvey korman
) attempts to clear out a town so he can buy up the land cheap
and sell it to the railroad
. he sends his goons to run the townsfolk out
.
but the town appeals to yhe governor
( mel brooks in one of many uninspired
,
adn unfunny roles
) tothe send them a new sherif to protect them
. the governor pawns the task off to korman ' s character hedley lamarr
.
( i cin tell you are rolling off your chairs right now just thinking of all yhe humor in that name
.
) lamarr decides tothe send the town a black sheriff
( gasp
) in tje hopes that hte town iwll be so disgusted at the prospect ofthe a black man living among them taht they will all jstu leave
. hold on
, i ' ve got to stop while these gales of laughter pass
. it ' s just too funny
. racism passing as humor
-
- gosh why didn ' t anybody ever think of that one befoer
? oh wait
, i think somebody might have
-
- they are called the kkk
. i ' m not calling brooks a racist
-
-
but i am calling him an insensitive bastard who wouldn ' t konw wqat was funny if it hit him over the head
.
but i digress
. anyway
, the black sheriff rides into town amid a flurry of townsfolk using the n
- word
. golly
, will the hilarity just never end
? he ends up joining forces wih a drunk
( gene wilder
)
, who happens tothe be the former fastest gun in the west
. together
, they save the day from evil
. not one person in this movie gives a decent performance
. wilder looks like he isnt recovering from a head injury for most ofthe the movie
,
and korman looks embarrassed to be a part of the movie
. ok
, he really didn ' t
-
-
but he should have
. the films star cleavon little goes along with thte black jokes as if they were discussing the time of day
. i did not laugh once during this whole sorry expeirence
. i admit to starting to snicker on a couple ofthe occasions
. actually
, the end started tothe look as if it was going to have some promise
,
bu alas
, it ended uv being as crappy as the rest ofthe the movie
. i can say with full confidence that blazing saddles has no reedeming qualities whatsoever
. mel brooks would be doing the world a favor if he burned every last copy of this film
.