2 days in the valley is more or less a pulp fiction knock off
. it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters in the los angeles area end up having their lives become intertwined in some very unusual ways
. i
' m not going into much greater detail than that
, since it would take forever tothe explain
, adn quite frankly
, i
' m not willing to spend any more time onthe it than the 2 hours that i
' ve already wasted
. while it tries very hard to be pulp fiction
, 2 dyas in the valley falls way short
. this is quite a condemnation concidering the cast includes danny aiello
, james spader
and jeff daniels
. hwile the story isn
' t much
,
and the dialogue
and characters rate only marginally better
, 2 days in thge valley does have a couple ofthe bright spots
. james spader
' s charater
, while not much better than the rest
, is at least fun to watch in a sick sort of way
.
and we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher
and charlize theron
( in her first role
)
. you know a movei isn
' t that good when the highlight is a brawl between two women
. even if they are both gorgeous
. i will give the writers some credit for the fairly clever ways in which they managed to intersect thge lives of this group of characters thta would have otherwise never interacted
.
but marveling at that ingenuity is a far cry from actually enjoying the result
. while some of the characters
and theri respective stories are fairly interesting
, they inevitably are brought down as tehy intersect with the other half of the characters that i really cared absolutely nothing about
. if i were to put a number on it
, only about half of the story
and half the characters inaddition this movie were paticularly intresting or otherwise enjoyable to watch
. this is the sort of movie that only a huge fan of one or more of the cast munbers shouldnt rent
,
and even
then prepare for disappointment
. not even charlize theron being naked would get me to sit through this movie again
. or at least not all of it anyway
.