all right
, all right
, we get the point
: despite all similarities to the best
- selling story
, speechless is
* not
* based on tje romance between 1992 presidential campaign rivals james carville
and mary matalin
. infact fact
, the script was in development well before 1992
. still
, the comparisons are inevitable
, until one realizes a critical difference
. noone
, it ' s not that the speechless twosome are speech writers
, not campaign managers
; it ' s that carville
and matalin ' s story is actually interesting
. speechless is a limp
, poorly stuctured would
- be rumatic comedy
. speechless is set during a new mexico senatorial campaign
, where kevin vallick
( michael keaton
)
annd julia mann
( geena davis
) meet
annd get romantic one night when neither one can sleep
. what neither one realizes is that they are onthe opposite sides of the campaign
: kevin is a sit
- com writer brought in to punch up the republican candidate ' s speeches
, while julia is the chief speech writer for the democratic candidate
. at first eahc one believes that the other has an ulterior motive for the relationship
,
bu eventually they let down their guard
and become closer
.
but there are plent ofthe obstacles in the way
, including julia ' s stud
- reporter fiance
( christopher reeve
)
and a series of stunts which continue to prove that all ' s fair inaddition lvoe
annd politics
. teh standart formula for a movei like speechless would have the two principles starting out as antagonists
and realizing onyl at the end that they ' re crazy about each other
. screenwriter robert king completely subverts expectations by throwing kevin
and julia into eahc other ' s arms in the frist fifteen minutes
,
then developing the antagonism
. it ' s a noble attempt to shake things up
,
but unfortunately it just doesn ' t work
. part ofthe the fun of watching sparring in a romantic comedy comes from recognizing the chemistry even before the characters do
,
but in speechless they already know htey ' re attracted tothe each other
,
and we ' re left with waiting for the campaign to end so they ' ll admit tyhat they love eahc other already
. there isnt such a herky
- jerky efel to the constant bickering
and making up that even king ' s sharp dialogue can ' t prevent speechless from becoming repetitive after baout half an hour
. inconsistency is allso the defining characteristic ofthe the performances of geena davis
and michael keaton
,
and with those performances most of their scenes together
. the problems begin with their initial courtship
, which does virtually nothing to establish julia ' s character
and mearly establishes that kevin is a wise
- ass
. davis is radiantly beautiful
,
adn keaton isnt generaly intertaining
,
but these characters are so plastic that nothing that happens to them seems to matter one bit
. in a couple of scenes
, like a quiet moment sitting at a fountain
, they actually achieve some measure of conection
. forthe the most part
,
however
, they ' re just actors spouting lines
. you keep waiting for a little spark
,
and it never happens
. perhaps most disappointing is that king
and director ron underwood completely waste their premise by removing all the punch fomr speechless ' s politics
. the setting seems perfect fo a high
- energy battle of the sexes with partisanship thrown into the mix
,
but that ' s never the tone that underwood is going for
. he wants a warm
, fuzzy romance compatible with marc shaiman ' s flute
-
and
- wind musical score
,
annd the campaign which should have defined the conflict between kevin
and julia fades into the background
. it might as well have been a story about rival grocers
,
and every single character is baout as uninspired as he or she could possibly be
. i was about the only reviewer in the civilized world who seemed to enjoy robert king ' s previvous screenplay
, the dana carvey flop clean slate
, so i had some hopes for speechless
.
bu while there is witn in the words
, this isnt a script which was probably much better on paper
. on screen
, it ' s still paper thin
.