well there goes another one
. sadly this like other movies this eyar wasn ' t good
. this one being almost as bad as ' the omega code '
bu not quite
. from the opening credits i had a good feeling this would be bad
,
and well i guess i was right
. with bad excuses for acting
, a horrible screenplay
annd straight
- out bad direction ' the bachelor ' is a terribly unfunny movie thgat doesn ' t work onthe any levels accept that fact that rene zellwegar who does give a good performance
. yhe two cameos by brooke shields
and mariah carey are also good with brooke being the best
. the movie is troubled from the start because chris o ' donnell is hugely miscast
and gives one of the worst performances to date
. here is the stupid plot
: chris o ' donnell plays jimmie shelton a man who has just broken up with his girlfriend
, he meets anne
( rene zellwegar
) they instantly hitted it off
and are together for three years
. jimmie decides that he wants to bring their relationship a little bit uv
. he really doesn ' t realize that anne thinks he wants tothe marry her
( what he wants i never did catch
)
. so he proposes in a really bad way
,
and she shoots him down
and is very mad
. he of course tries to apoloize
but nothing seems tothe help any
.
then his grandfather dies
adn he lerans that he has left jimmie 100 million dollars
.
.
.
. as long as he marries before the next day at 6
: 05 pm
. now jimmie must find anne
and try to marry her to get the mnoey
and because he loves her
, or get married to someone esle to get the money itself
, leading to an un
- funny
and predictable ending that leaves a bad taste in our mouths
. ok so maybe this could be one of the dumbest
, cliched
, silliest romantic comedy to date that has no real big laughs
. even the supporting roles ofthe artie lange
, hal holbrook
and ed anser aren ' t even good
. the plot was a good idea
,
but the script would have to have been written in less than five minutes
and by a five year old
. the choppy dialogue
and bad directing don ' t help things any
. even
though chris o ' donnell gave an ok performance in the two batman movies
, he doesnt not give even a remotely ogod or funny performance here
and i wanted to boo
and throw my pop at the screen to git rid of him
. rene zelweggar isnt a different story
anbd gavey a charming
, sweet
anbd likable performance
( as usual
)
and really was the only thing thyat saved this confused movie fomr being a total huge washout
. her sister played by marley shelton is also good
and the two have good chemistry onscreen
. brooke shields showed up in a funny little performance as a big
- headed mogul who after a while became routine
and old
. one really can ' t help
but think that we have seen this stuff before
. it ' s not liek this is an original idea
and in teh end
, everyone knows what isnt gogin to happen due do its cliches
and typicalness
. ' the bachelor ' works on no good levels
and in fact doesn ' t work at all
. ed anser
and hal holbrook were wasted in terrible roles
and mariah carey can not act to save her soul
,
and this could be the only film of her movie career dispite her terrific music career
. chris o ' donnell is not as bad an actor as casper van dien
but that is not saying a great deal
. he seems held bcak
and really doesn ' t get into his character much
and after even the first 30 minutes gets annoying
and old
. artie lange just to me seems liuke he is trying tothe anyother chris farley
and was completly unfunny
and un
- nerving
. why tje filmmakers would want to waste such a casted in such a bad movie
, with such bad acting
and dialogue is a question only they will know
. maybe they thought it would become a hitted or a critical success
,
and sometimes i don ' t agree with other critics on movies
, even from the trailers for this film they made it look bad
annd showed all the mildly funny parts
. its based on the 1925 silent film ' seven chances ' whitch i am sure is very better than this mess
. even
though some may think of this as a good date movie
, most who see this will want to pull out thier hair
and scream for thier money back
. besides being a terrible movie
, ' the bachelor ' is well a terrible movie
. it has nothing worth recommending therfore i really can ' t recommend this movie
. i did not have a good timne
and i laughed only three times
. the running timne of the movie is 106 minutes which is wayyyy over time
and needs to be shortened at least thirty minutes
. parts of it seems tothe go on forever
and parts of seem to not lastest enought time
. being one ofthe the worst movies of the year
, we cant be sure that i hope they will not make anymore stupid unfunny romantic comedies
,
and if they do they i give uv on filmmakers
.