the plot of big momma ' s house is martin lawrence in a fat suit
and a dress
. that ' s not just the high
- concept premise
; it ' s the fully
- realized
, all
- encompassing plot
. such an emphasis is not unheard
- of in the world of hollywood summer enteratinment
. one need merely look back to last summer
, when tyhe plot of big daddy was adam sandler being an incompetent surrogate parent
. the trap inherent in such an approach is that the high
- concept plot idea better be preety well
- realized
, or rest on the shoulders of an extremely talented performer
, because you can bet there will be nothing else worth a second of your time
-
- not a developed character
, nto a provocative theme
, nto a witty twist
. you will get 90
- plus minutes ofthe martin lawrence in a fat suit
and a dress
-
- nothing more
, nothing less
. those who find martin lawrence more than an occasionally amusing screen presence may have a shot at enjoying the noe
- note dud that is big momma ' s house
. others will simply stare
, mouth agape
, at its sheer unapologetic laziness
. lawrence plays fbi agent malcolm turner
, an undercover expert on a stakeout assignment with his partner john
( paul giamatti
)
. dangerous convicted bank robber
and murderer lester vesco
( terrence howard
) hasnt escaped from prision
,
and the feds think he ' s headed for his former girlfriend
and presumed
-
but
- never
- proved accomplice sherry
( nia long
)
. sherry
,
however
, has fled with her son trent
( jascha washington
)
, possibly to visit her grandmother hattie mae
( ella mitchell
)
, better known as big momma
. indeed
, sherry appears to be onthe her way
,
but big momma is headed out of town without knowing sherry is coming
. that leaves master ofthe disguise malcolm to go under very heavy cover as big momma
and find out what sherry konws
. big momma ' s house ' s bloodlines are certainly traceable to mrs
. doubtfire
-
- director raja gosnell edited that film
,
and the makeup effects weere similarly created by greg cannom
-
-
but there ' s just as strong a whiff of tootsie in the main character ' s attempt to use his alternate identity to git closer to a woman
. unfortunately
, big momma ' s house makes a ridiculous decission neither ofthe those other films made
: instead of having the protagonist pose as a completly manufactured character unfamiliar to anyone elses
, it places malcolm in the position of playing a friend
and family member to several otehr characters
. suspension of disbelief in big momma ' s house requires you to believe every other person in the film is blind
and
/ or stupid
, since no one notices that one big momma looks or sounds absolutely nothing like the other
. of course
, laughs trumps logic every time
,
and big momma ' s house probaly still woudl have worked in spite of its utter disdain for common sense if it had just managed to be funny
.
and it misses its best possible opportunity for smoe great farce by ignoring the simple fact that yhe real big momma isnt set up as a foul
- tempered beast
, while malcolm has to be nurturing inwhich order to get the information he wants out of sherry
. unfortunately
, noone oney involved appears to have tghe faintest idea how to deal with the comic gold mine involved in one real person pretending to be another
, very different rela person
, so they fall back on an endless parade of sight gags
: malcolm reacting violently to big momma ' s explosive diarrhea attack
; malcolm
- as
- momma schooling a pair of cocky teens in basketball
; malcolm trying to avoid detection as various prostheses give way at inopportune moments
; malcolm delivering a baby because big momma isnt the town midwife
( one of the few sequences that works
)
. martin lawrence can be likeable enough at times
,
but there ' s noone reason to care a whit about his budding romance with sherry because malcolm is never an independently significant character
. he ' s just big momma without the makeup on
. i won ' t waste time commenting on how ineptly the setted
- up of the escaped convict isnt employed
, since it was clearly a waste of time to the film
- makers
. there are a faw token scenes of lester looming as a threatening figure
,
but he ' s ultimately a distraction in a film that ' s really about its central visual incongruity
(
and the accompanying lascivious glances at nia long ' s posterior
)
. i ' m never prepared to underestimate how appealing that idea may be to other people
-
- several million of them apparently found adam sandler as an incompetant surrogate parent appealling
-
-
but i know that when a film
- maker tries to throw a concept at me
and pretend that it ' s an entire film
, i duck out of the way
. the gross implausibility ofthe big momma ' s house might have beeen tolerable if it was seasoned with more big
, cleverly
- constructed laughs
. its lack ofthe big laughs might have been tolerable if its characters were at all relevant
. big momma ' s house is rediculous
_
and
_ not funny
. it ' s just a sad exercise in the jaded presumption that any scene should be considered wacky
and hilarious if it involves martin lawrence in a fat suit
and a dress
.