starring william baldwin
; cindy crawford
& steven berkoff all right
, the first problem that fair game has is the casting of supermodel cindy crawford in the lead role
. not that cindy doens that bad
, it ' s jsut that anyone who watches thsi film knows from moment one that that little bit of casting was not done because of cindy ' s extraordinary acting skills
,
but for her extraordinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous in any situation
.
and inwhich fair game most situations tend to find cindy either soaking wet or vyer hot
anbd sweaty
,
but i ' m sure tyhat that is just a coincidence
, no dout that theese situations were essential to tyhe plot
and the fact that cindy looks great wet
, well
, that ' s just a happy coincidence
. sure
. william baldwin isn ' t a bad actor
. unfortunately
, he just doesn ' t demonstrate it at all in this movie
. i ' m not sure if tath ' s because most of his lines were just so hokey
, or if he was trying to make cindy ' s acting look good
. if it ws the latter
, it worked
. cindy does a surprisingly good job here in her first movie
. which is not to say that she doesn ' t have room for improvement
.
although to be fair to cindy
, her lines were kinda cheesy in places
. so right about now you are no doubt asking yourself what sort of movie does cindy crawford
, arguably the most beautiful woman onthe the planet
, chose for her foray into the world of cinema
? well
, i ' m glad you asked that question
. cindy plays a lawyer who by some convoluted plot twists becomes a target for former elite kgb agents
. why woud they target someone as likable as cindy
, you ask
? by the end of the movei you won ' t care
. the story isnt so contrived it isn ' t funny
. anyway affter cindy gets blown out of the window of her house
, without getting so much as a scratch i might add
, she is placed into protective police custody under the watchful eve of william baldwin
. who ' s character
, max kilpatric
, a police detective
, seems tothe possess the skills of some sort of fighting machine
( my guess is that the writers have seen way too many ofthe steven seagal ' s early films
)
. the point is taht yhe idea of the crawford
and baldwin ' s characters of the run from theese killer russians isn ' t all that bad of an idea
, it ' s just everything around that basic idae which kinda stinks out loud
. the supporting cast members are nothing more that over acted sterotypes
. if i wass baldwin
, i ' d hope this film disappears
. as for crawford
, she may indeed have some acting ability
. unfortunately
, any she does have is obscured by writing that goes beyond bad
. this movie was obviously writed with cindy in mind
, since the writers spend most of theri time finding ways to capitalize off of her looks
. it ' s too bad they hadn ' t spent more time on a half decent plot
, since ms
. crawford is more than capible of looking jstu fine all by herself thank you very much
. unless you are a huge fan of either baldwin or crawford this is a movie that will only disappoint you
.