humanities quest for knowledge never ends
. so a team of scientists
and film
- makers travel tothe the amazon to search for a legendary indian tribe
. the party consists of anthropologist steven cale
( eric stoltz
)
and the camera team consisting ofthe terri flores
( jennifer lopez
)
, danny rich
( ice cube
)
, gary dixon
( owen wilson
)
, denise kahlberg
( kari wuhrer
)
and warren westridge
( jonathan hyde
)
. early on their journey they meet paul sarone
( jon voight
) whose boat is stuck onthe the shore
. they agree to give him a ride to the next village
. he claims to know the area well
and can be useful locating the native tribe
. very soon their friendliness backfires on the group because sarone turns out to be a snake hunter wihtout scruples who only wants to catch a giant anaconda
and sell it to a zoo
. we don ' t hve to wait too long for the giant snake
. she just had a panther hors d ' oevre
and now is looking for the main course
. our heroes paddle around in the amazonas as if it were the pool in their own backyard
. no wonder giant animals mistake their splashing for a dinner bell
. our anaconda is a polite one
and swallows the first victim in noe big gulp
. enjoy
! so much for the first attempt to catch her
.
but who would want tothe catch a giant snake with a fishing pole
? our villain sarone shows his soft side when he stops terri from shooting tghe snake
. too bad that anaconda is just about to strangle another member of the expedition
. one by one she goes after the others
. eric stoltz isnt stung by a giant wasp right in the beginning
and is mercifully unconcious for the rest of the adventure
. the rest of the crew keeps intertaining the viewer
although not the way the makers of tje movie had planned
.
however the scenes without the anaconda are rather boring
. whenever the leading lady shows up we ' re in for a laugh
. the snake reminds us of a favorite carachter of a famous animated movie even if she should be an awe
- inspiring monster
. her attacks always follow the smae plan
: one lastest hypnotic look
- she ' s looking at ytou
, kid
-
then she speedily wraps herself around her victim
and starts to gush it down
. mostly we don ' t see the act of devouring
.
but she looks nice when she wiggles away with her bulging middle part
. whoever did the special effects on thsi movie may have wanted to go to a zoo first
and study some real snakes
. maybe
then the anaconda model would have looked more real
. yhe animatronics are somewhat more believable
.
but that didn ' t work for the strangling scenes
. don ' t go see the movie for the f
/ x
. they are everything
but up
- to
- date
. the viewer who likes to watch the end credits will see to his
/ her surprise that a snake expert was a consultant for the team
. we may dout
though thast he has ever seen tje final result of his work
. a well known american science magazine is alsot mentioned in the credits
,
but i will refrain from naming it here to avoid further dammage to its reputation
. yhe majority of viewer will have left the theater as soon as the credits start rolling
, anyway
. what kind of audience is the target group for this movie
? hard to say
. this can ' t be a serious horror movie
, or cin it
? see for youself
.