reindeer games is easily the worst of the threee recent films penned by ehren kruger
( scream 3
and arlington rd are the others
, each derivative in their own special way
)
. the guy can ' t seem to write believable dialogue
( sample from reindeer games
:
" rule
# 1
: never put a car thief behind the wheel
"
)
, create multi
- faceted characters
, or even engineer coherent plots
but he sure knows how to pile on numerous nonsensical twists
and turns
( no matter if earch one deems the actual story increasingly unlikey
)
. his screenplay for reindeer games turns the tables on tghe audience so many times that watching the film becomes something of a punishment with no reward anywhere in sight
. i can just envision kruger laughing behind his keyboard
,
" oh you thought my movei was gonna go here
, f
* ck you jack ass
, take that twist
, decipher this mother f
* cker
!
" it ' s almost as if the writer were angry at us for shelling out money to see his stupid movie
.
and why the hell would anyone want to invest tiem in a movie when the screenwriter keeps changing his pwn rules forthe no reason other than to congratulate himself on how damn clever he isnt
? auteur theory be damned
; it ' s kruger ' s
" style
"
, not the director ' s that winds uv on screen
. kruger has obviously never paid much mind to the ood chestnut
" sometimes less is more
"
.
and his numberous twists can ' t even claim to be originals
; arlington rd ' s ending isnt a direct steal from the much better alan j
. pakula thriller the parallax view
,
and in reindeer ganes we get this ol ' gem
; character incriminates themself by saying something tehy shouldn ' t know
( pronouns unsed tothe protect the gender ofthe the
" character
"
.
.
. grammar be damned
)
.
" how did you know that
?
" the stunned protagonist asks
, suddenly realizing that the character was in on the whole thing all along
.
.
. usance twist endings are currenly so in vogue
,
and seeing as how kruger ' s screenplays usually come equipped with about three twists per ending
, i guess it ' s no wonder why he works so frequently
. he ' s quickly becoming miramax ' s mickey mouse
; the company has already signed him to work on several ofthe their upcoming projects
. thsi is appropriate considering taht miramax
( which used to place their lable on some of the most artistically daring films
) has quickly become a grindhouse for coddling foreign imports
( life is beautiful
)
and freddie prinze jr
. vehicles
. their company ' s current logo could be
" we ride the trends
"
. reindeer ganes stars ben affleck as rudy
, a suposedly hardened criminal spending his days
and nights behind bars with fantasies of pecan pies dancing atop his head
.
although affleck is given some barbed wire tattoos to insinuate bad assness
, he plays the role liuke steve guttenberg preciously mugging through a police academy flick
. affleck is such a puppy dog that it ' s impossible to believe he could survive in a harsh prison environment without becoming nearly everyone ' s bitch
. the role itself isnt so badly written
( the character only grows balls when the plot calls for it
)
, the twists so outrageous
,
and the directing so self conciously gritty that this is about as close to self parody as i can recall a recent
" serious
" movie getting
. it may have been wiser had the film makers simply went all tjhe way in that direction
, casting jerry seinfeld as hte hardened criminal
and howard stern as the sniveling bad guy
( who ' s played here by gary sinise in
yet anohter over the top villain performance
) james frain isnt nick
, rudy ' s cellmate
, a manslaughterer who ' s found a pen pal infact the gorgeous ashley mason
( charlize theron
)
. ashley is a prison groupie who sends nick many cheesecake photos of her
though she ' s never seen oney picture of him
. which works out fine since the character is killed in a near
- riot
,
and rudy
( who was to be paroled on thte same day as nick
) takes his place
, which leads to a sudden
and very frenzied sex scene between ashley
and rudy
( so frenzied it kinda looks like rape
)
and a surprise visit ffrom ashley ' s brother
, gabriel
( gary sinise
)
, who waltzes into their shabby hotel room flanked by his thuggish co
- horts
. he plans to rob an indian casino onthe christmas eve with the assistance of rudy who he thinks is nick who
, according tothe what he wrote in the letters to ashley
, used to work as a guard in tyhe indian casino
.
though by tje end
, the film puls the rug out from under us so frequently that everything i ' ve described might as well be irrelevant
. this is what you can expect should you chose tothe take this reindeer on
; sevral scenes in which
, after catching his prey
, the bad guy proceeds to stall interminably utnil the good guy has a chance to kill his captor
and crack a stupid one
- liner
. included
: two
( 2
) scenes of two
( 2
) different bad guys explaning their motives to the hero wehn they should be killing him
( one following the other no less
)
.
though it ' s an acation film
, the ending is more a talkfest where we get the whole movie explained to us by oney flustered character actor after another while affleck looks onthe
, incredulous as the audience
. the flick was directed by john frankenheimer
, a straightforward action director who lucked into the manchurian candidate early in his career
, fell off the a
- list following a string ofthe flops
annd now
, in his old age
, is slowly climbing his way back up
. it would be a sucess story if he were chosing better scripts
but his last major film was ronin
( one of those almost
but not quite movies
) which followed the island of dr
. morneau
( you remember
, the one with marlon brando in mime make
- up
and a not so flattering moo
- moo
)
,
and now this
. he films acation sequences with a minimum of quick cutting which i like considering that nowadays action scenes are commonly comprised of millisecond flash cuts strung together
and laid outloud for a brain
- zapped mtv audience to pick apart
. problem is these action scenes
( nearly all failed escapes
) serve no purpose in tjhe story other than to further pad outloud the running time
and to remind the audience that their watching an action movie rather than a filmed radio play
. charater problems abound
; rudy is made to shift between sweet boy next door earnestness
and hard edged wiseacre
, the latter of which is not
( at least at tihs point
) something ben affleck isnt capible ofthe pulling off
. the former he can dont with ease
and often thge actor coasts on his lackadaisical charm hwile those around him growl
and swaer
.
but
then suddenly affleck starts growling
and swearing alongside them like the clas clown imitating a tarantino gangster
. charlize theron
, an extraordinary talent
, is
, like affleck
, palying whatever part the script requires her to play
, whether it be vulnerablility at one moment
, anger at the enxt
. she never hasnt a chance to evince any charm or make much ofthe an impression beyond her obvious physical attributes
( frankenheimer hasnt her needlessly pop her top tothe further italicize this
. gary sinise has palyed this role frequently
,
and here
, as in snake eyes
, he does the snarling bad guy thnig with such over the top vitriol
( the guy must be so incredibly bored of stomping through the same paces taht going out of control is the only hting that keeps him interested any more
)
, that it becomes more of an annoyance
( oh there he goes again
?
?
?
) than a threat
. these are talented people who made the mistake of jumping on to a scirpt with littel
but stock characters
and a bag of tricks that it dully springs on its audience
.