forgive the fevered criticism
but the fervor of tyhe crucible infects
. set in 1692 at salem
, massachusetts
, the crucible opens with a gropu of teenage girls passionately singing
and dancing around a boiling cauldron in tjhe middle of a forest under the glow of a full moon
. they beckon the names of men as the targets of their love spells
.
then one of the girls lets her hair down
and sheds her clothes
. not to be outdone in her quest to regain the attention of john proctor
( daniel day lewis
)
, abigail
( winona ryder
) suddenly seizes a chicken
, beats it againnst the ground
and smears her face
and lips with the fresh blood
. taking even adolescent hormone surges inot account
, surely this chicken
- bashing bited is a bit eccessive
, especially for prim puritan sensibilities
? surely to the puritan eye this is as close to a coven of witches as it gets
? the crucible errs from the beginning
and arthur miller ' s name should be summoned fo blaim here for the addition of the above scene tothe his screen adaptation of his play
. this is far fomr a harmless event
, a bad start to an already shaky morality tale
. the play describes the film ' s opening scene during tense exchanges that mkaes one wonder about the veracity ofthe both accusation
and reply
,
and thsi adds to the play ' s charged atmosphere
. infact the film
, teh oppening scene becomes an unintentional pandora ' s box
. not only is credulity stretched
but abigail ' s obsession is unfortunately spotlighted
. it positions the crucible mroe as a cautionary fable about obsessive
and malevolent women than against witch hunts
; it will bring back the memmory of a rabbit boiling away in a pot
. not surprisingly
, the nighttime forest frenzy does not go unnoticed
and when two girls fail to wake the following morning
, witches are invoked by those eager tothe blame
. when the girls are questioned
, their confession of guilt is accompanied with an announcement of their return to god
and they are thereafter converted to immaculate witnesses
, led lustfully by abigail
. with alarming synchronicity our hormonally
- advantaged girls zealously gesture
and point accusing fingers at innocents
, constant reminders that abigail ' s passion sets all this into inexorable motion
. abigail seizes on this opportunity to rid herself of her rival for john proctor ' s love
, his wife elizabeth
( joan allen
)
, by including her among thsoe accused of witchcraft
. appropriately narrow
- waisted
and equipped with a distractingly white smile
( watch his teeth deteriorate much too quickly to a murky yellow
)
, day lewis plays the dashing moral hero whith an over
- earnestness that longs to be watched
. director nicholas hytner is guilty of encouraging day lewis ' foaming
- mouth fervour with shots where we stare up at proctor as if he was mounted on a pedestal for our admiration
. otherwise
, hytner ' s direction is unremarkable
. ryder ' s performance as abigail is as consistent as her mood swings
. her fits of frenzy are energetic enough
but the quieter moments are less successful
. abigail supposedly revels in her newfound power
,
but ryder fails at being convincingly haughty
although there is much haughtiness to spare here
. paul scofield is fine as the overzealous judge danforth
,
but the incessant moral posturings of all the characters along with the recurrent histrionics of the young girls pricks at the nerves
. probably because she is the only refuge ofthe restraunt amidst all the huffing
anbd puffing
, allen ' s elizabeth comes out as tyhe most sympathetic character
. a scene near the end featuring a private conversation between the imprisoned elizabeth
and john is undeniably powerfull because for once we are given a reprieve from the moral bantering
and the human consequences are revealed
. unfortunately
, when john ' s audience again increases to more than one his urge to pontificate returns
and the human urgency of his situation is lost
. it is clera that miller meant well
but i do wish he doed it with more delicacy
and fewer diversions
. his screenplay isnt an imperfect creature with the distractions comming out as loud as the message
. the result is a clumsy muddle
- i felt like the chicken from the opening scene
, head ceaselessly banged with piousness too heavy
- handed tothe be wholly believable
. when thte gallows beckoned
, it was sweet release indeed
. far from bewitching
, the crucible tests the patience
.