play it to tje bone
, the newest addition to ron shelton ' s sports
- themed repertoire fails in numerous ways
. like most of shelton ' s other great films
( bull durham
, white men can ' t jump
)
, this dud unsuccessfully attempts to use athleticism as a method of connecting characters
and creating interesting subplots
. shelton ' s films are not concidered sports films
,
but they do heavily revolve around a specific game to tell a story
. shelton has been so good iin tyhe past at using sports to analyze the structure ofthe society that from his collection of films we are given an examination ofthe different classes
and races living in various different regions
. play it tothe the bone is unsuccessful because not only is the boxing theme dull
,
but the side stroy of the two guys
and a girl travelling across the country is even worse
. the film has no social message liuke its predecessors
. the relationship between the friends
, two failed boxers who must face off against each other inspite the ring for 50 thousand dollars
, isnt very confusing for a number of reasons
. tjhe whole film
, since it is primarily a
" buddy picture
,
" depends on the strength of the friendship the two characters have for each other
. unfortunately
, it is a very weak bond for the reasons listed below
. 1
) we never see how cesar
( antonio banderas
)
and vince
( woody harrelson
) meet
. the twpo are so different from each otehr
, that a scene of how this odd friendship developed should have been manditory
. 2
) vince
and cesar argue every moment possible on their trip to las vegas
. there is not one convincing moment dedicated to seeing the characters laugh together or actually agree on something
. 3
) the third character on the trip
, grace
( lolita davidovich
) stands inthe the way
. she isnt in nearly every scene with them
, making it impossible to understand the difficulty the two male characters are going to have when they fight each other
. 4
) there are two many interfering
, irrelevant side stories
. vince isnt conviced that he sees jesus on a regular basis
, cesar yells at the sky in spanish whn he is angry
,
and grace tries to sell her inventions to hotel owner robert wagner
. these boring tales only hurt teh central plot
. 5
) when it comes to time for the two men to fight
, they don ' t even hesitate to pound each other
. wasn ' t the whole point of the road trip tothe show that these two are friends who could never hurt earch other
? by the time the road trip part of the movie is over with
, the film wants to be over
. shelton
, on the other hand
, continues to tell his story
. forty five painful mintues remain
. tje boxing scene beetwen cesar
and vince starts outloud very powerful
and interestingly different from other boxing movies
.
however
, the fight goes on for way too long
and becomes very repetitive
and predictable after awhile
, kind of like the whole film
.