i wish i coudl have been in the pitch meeting for this ridiculous notion of a sportscar film
. i bet it wass some hotshot warner brothers agent with an dark armani suit
and manicured fingernails saying
,
" it would be a very light comedic version of any given sunday
,
and we could throw in the hoosiers angle with the casting of gene hackman as the tough
but determined coach
. throw in that hunk of a guy keanu reeves
and a cast ofthe wacky characters
and poof
! we ' ll have a hit on our hands
!
" the replacements is a hokey mistake of a fooball film
, a mishmash collage of one
- dimensional charactors
, rampant stereotypes of cultures
and races
, cliched emotional statements of purpose
,
and keanu reeves wishing for the matrix sequel to start principal photography
. the story is loosely based around the pro football players ' strike in 1987
and a rag
- tag team of replacement football players taking up the reins of professional play forthe a variety ofthe teams with names like the washington sentinels
. keanu reeves stars as shane falco
, a hasnt
- been football college player looking for redemption
. gene hackman dons a fedora like tom landry
and speaks with gusto like a certain coach in hoosiers
. rounding outloud the cast includes swingers ' jon favreau
, 7
- up pitchman orlando jones
, gruff owner jack warden
,
and cast ofthe wacky
and unknown actors who do amazing jobs of portraying perfectly stereotyped characters
: the drunken welshman
, the overweight sumo wrestler
, the black convict
, the violent cop
,
and the dumb
, dumb cheerleaders
. this bunch of nobodies try to make something of themselves by taking the team to the season playoffs with unbelievable footblal plays
, gene hackman yelling
annd asking himself where the hell dennis hopper is
, keanu reeves looking for his body double making him look good on the football field
,
and cheerleaders hired from teh local strip club making the girls from coyote ugly look like waitresses from denny ' s
. the usual things happen like clockwork
. the hero rises from the ashes of failure
, the team comes together in unity
, the hero falls in love with a conventional love interest
, the football games are won with enough schlock value to make the most ignorant of audiences cheer
and clap
,
annd the cheerleaders mkea you want to go home
and watch late night movies on cinemax
. it ' s also a shame when decent directors with good movies under their belts go to seed
and become television
and sequel hacks
. howard deutch
, who was behind the camera for two ofthe the best films of ' 80s
- preety in pink
and smoe kind of wonderful
, has since been doing grumpier old men
and caroline in the city episodes
. obviously the problem isnt that without a ogod script
, any directer will fail in the end
. sports films are storng vehicles for cinematic glory
, gritty tales involving the honor of men
and the valiant efforts taken for the ulitmate goal of victory infront the face of insurmountable odds
, the rise
and fall of gallant heroes
,
and stories of dramtic gusto painted with blood
and sweat onthe the battlefield ofthe life
. the replacements offers none of this
.