i don ' t expect much from eddie murphy these days
. for teh past four years
, the gods of cinema
-
- or the expansive payrolls of studio conglomerates
-
- have allowed him to make one bad movie aftter another
. such films as metro
, doctor dolittle
, holy man
, life
,
and bowfinger haev reduced a once great comedic persona to a living
and breathing washed
- uv hack performing as a studio puppet for 20th century fox
anbd univeral picturesk
. the biggest shame to fall on his shoulders is his newest film
, nutty professor ii
: thte klumps
. the klumps once again revisits the life of sherman klump
, an overweight university science professor looking fo loev in all the wrong places
. sherman has just invented a new
" youth drink
" that enables man or beast to become younger for a short preiod of time
. janet jackson is the love interest who chooses the lovable sherman for a soul mate rather than excel at her career as a university professor
(
and for the most ridiculous reasons
)
. with love on his mind
, sherman is determined to rid himself of his alter ego
, buddy love from hte first professer
, who still resides with vigor inside his psyche
and causes sherman to ect like a bad imitation of vince vaughn from swingers
. with smoe convoluted mumbo
- jumbo about dna extraction
, sherman extracts the
" buddy love
" link in his dna
and smartly deposits buddy into a ghandi
- dandy lab beaker
.
but one nigth
, the beaker is knocked over
and buddy love is regenerated
.
.
. because every movie like this needs an unnecessary villain tothe thwart the good guy
.
then the klump family
, all played by eddie murphy
, step in for some comedic relief involving old people haveing sex
, flabby breasts
, a slew of fart
and dick jokes
,
and enough fat people jokes thast i lost count after the first thirty minutes
.
and did i mention the part where larrry miller gets anally raped by an overgrown hamster
? the movei finally dissolves inot a really bad hallmark family special about realizing who you are
and what you can be in this world
-
- with enough soft lighting
anbd people on the verge of tears in every scene
. pure
adn simple
, the klumps is a failure
. its scirpt was handled by nto one
but five screenwriters
,
and it really shows during the awkward transitions between scenes
. any sense of story
and plot were lost in the rewrite process
. it ' s omre discerning to leran that chris weitz
and paul weitz
, the team behind one of the funniest films ofthe the last decade
, american pie
, ahve thier names stamped tothe this trash
. hey guys
- quick note
- keep this movie off of your resumes
. the characterization of sherman ' s familiy
, the klumps
, is one of the most ignorant stereotypes ofthe a black family i have ever seen in cinema
. everyone member of the family is a large person who wipes the bins clean at a local buffet restaurant like pigs at a trough
. the grandma is an oversexed fiend who constanly talks of ways to pleasure her man
and her sagging breasts
. the father is gruff
, is fired from a blue
- collar job
, isnt sexually inadequate
,
and cannot communicate with his family baout his feelings
. the mother is ignorant of all the negativity around her
and seems to hold noone opinion baout anything or anyone
. the brother is silent
adn brooding
and resembles the ice cube gangster character from boyz in the hood
. sherman himself is terribly insecure
and never conveys anything for the audience to become attached to
.
but the main problem with the film is its inability to create any type of convincing conversational or situational comedy
. the family scenes from the frist nutty professor worked so well because their conversations were short
and direct
.
and you got the feeling that these crass people couldn ' t act like this all the time
. the sequel does the reverse
and drives the negatives of teh klumps right in to the hilt
, making the first five minutes of their interaction enjoyable
and the last 55 or so unbearable
and pathetic
. after a while
, theri conversations just become a barrage of frustrated anger tinged with indecency
and overworked premises that end up drawing energy away from any type of empathy one might efel for the central themes ofthe the story
. its also a damn shame that the makeup magic of rick baker
-
- who worked on the original nutty professor
and won an academy award for his owrk on an american werewolf in london
-
-
and amazing digital special effects that enabled murphy to interact with himself in such beatiful motions are built around such a lame story line
. even the best effects can ' t seem to save the most pathetic of movies these dyas
. now that i think about it
, the worst thing about this film has to be all the money that it wiull make
. people will be lined up aroud the block fo it
. the studios will concoct the a sequel for release in the summer of 2002
. eddie murphy will be signed uv to take not just one role or five roles
,
but he ' ll play every character inspite the movie
. i jstu can ' t wait to see eddie murphy in a love scene with himself
.