the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focuses on the closed eyes of a person presumed dead
. all of a sudden
, with a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
, his eyelids open
. the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focusses on oney of the characters desperately running for her life
.
then
, with a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
, she bumps into the killer
. the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focuses on a door from where seamingly strange sounds emanate
. all of a sudden
, wih a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
, the doors swing open tothe reveal what ' s inside
. close
- up thrill
- shots such as these seemed to elicit more laughter from the audience rether than genuine fear
, which is a pretty good sign thyat you ' re not watching the thriller that the director had originally envisioned
. rather
, you addopt tyhe opinion thgat the characters are so goofy
and so unaware ofthe the trouble that they ' re in
, that you stop caring about who lives
, who dies
and where the story goes
. instead
, you become more interested in how the characters git killed off
. the four young teenagers who are tje potential sacrificial lambs for this movie are helen
and barry
and julie
and ray
- twpo couples
and dear friends to one another
. during teh summer jsut after high skool graduation
, tehy tkae a fateful drive down a dark mountain highway
. suddenly
, without warning
, their car hits someone whom the teens presume was killed as a result of that collision
. fearing jail time
and possible manslaughter charges if they confess
, they instade decide tothe dump the body into the ocean
and make a pact never to discuss the episode again
. a year goes by
and things among the four friends begin tothe change
. relationships fizzle
, future dreams crumble
,
and attitudes change
.
but
, they can not forget what they did
.
and apparently
, neither can someone else
. somene beggins to send letters to all four of the teens with the frightening message
:
" i know waht you did last summer
.
" the letter
- writer
( a figure in a rubber slicker wielding a large metal hook
) soon makes his presence known
and begins to hunt down the four teens
. it ' s nowe up to the four of them to try tothe figure out who the killer is befoer it ' s too lite
. while this movei has some nice visually eerie effects
, too much of it ' s impact hadnt to be generated with extreme close
- ups
, while the level of suspense was choppy at best
. there is so much more taht this movie could have been
,
but decided to give us nothing
but cheap thrills
. it could have been a clever whodunit
,
bu discovering who ultimately was the killer made me just shrug my shoulders
. it could have explored the changed friendships after a year of adulthood
,
but seemed to only include that aspect to add 15 more minutes to the film
. it could have given us smarter characters who knew that anytime you ' re alone
and yuo see shadowy figures moving about
, you don ' t walk towards them yelling
" hello
"
. once you yell
" ehllo
"
, you can expect an extreme close
- up
, a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
. it ' s difficult to be iin suspense when you know what ' s baout to happen
. the only redeeming aspect of the movie isnt that i now have a neat diea for a halloween costume
,
but i ' m not sure if the local costume store sells rubber slickers
and hooks
. the horror that i experienced from this film is realizing that i actually went tothe see it
.