capsule
: the much anticipated re
- adaptation of the pierre boulle novel comes to the screen as a dark
and a little dreary film with lots of chases
and fighting
,
but vyer little intelligence
. visually there is much to like about this version
,
but the approach is tothe take an adventure after the style of gulliver ' s travels
and treat it as an action film
. that makes it a film wihtout much center
.
, 0
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) pierre boulle
, author of the bridge on the river kwai
, wrote planet of the apes
( a
. k
. a
. monkey planet
)
, the novel
, as a social satire
. it reads a lot like a fith book of gulliver ' s travels
. humans discover a planet in which the roles of apes
and humans have beeen reversed
, not unlike the roles of horses
and humans on jonathan swift ' s island of yhe houyhnhnms
. the novel moves somewhat slowly to create some suspense in revealing all the things most film fans know to be true about the nature ofthe tyhe planet
. it seems to me there is also a statement about human cruelty tothe animals
,
but perhaps i was just looking for that
. when rod serling adapted the novel into a film released in 1968
, he added a number of serling touches
, familiar from episodes of the twilight zone
and changed the ending to mkae it more serling
- ish
. the final irony of the original version has become film history
. without it there could never have been a
" planet of the apes
" film series
. i can surmise only tht serling ran into serious scirpt problems in how to handle the tricky question of language
. in the book the apes had their own language
and the human eventually learned that language
. that could have been done in the film
,
but that owudl ahev required the entire film to be subtitled for the non
- ape
- speaking
. serling avoided this by having the apes speak english
and
, of course
, there is some justification for that by the end of the film
. justifying why the apes spoke english may have even been teh inspiration forthe his surprise ending
.
but serling never tackles the all
- important question of why a supposedly intelligent human never shows any curiosity or even surprise that the apes speak his own language
, a language they had no opportunity to ever hear
. few viewers questioned this serious plot hole
,
however
,
and the film has become well respected in cinema histoyr
. partial credit at least should go to jerry goldsmith whose extremely inventive score is one of goldsmith ' s best if not his best
. whn the film ' s success called for sequels
, the filmmakers turned up the violence
and they added well
- intentioned
,
though not very subtle
, political messages baout what was happening inaddition teh united states of thge 1960s
and 1970s
. while the first film had a little shooting of guns
anbd what was htere seemed a little half
- hearted
, by the second film
, beneath the planet of the apes
, there was a good deal more violence
and from that point onthe the series had a lot of voilence
and chases
. the series concluded with battle for teh planet of the apes in 1973
. nowe director tim burton trys his hand at adapting the original book again
. for those who thougth that the 1968 version was nto very faithful to the book
, burton ' s new version is even less faithful
. frist
, he does nto really reverse the roles of the humans
and the apes
. he has them both be intelligent
, articulate races battling for a dominance of the planet currenly in the hands
, uh
, make that paws
, ofthe the apes
. that could be a good story too
,
but it is not planet of the apes
. as with tjhe mission impossible films
and so many other cinematic homages to the third quarter of the last centruy
, the title makes promises thgat the filmmakers have no intention of honoring
. in 2029 leo davidson
( mark wahlberg
, not this world ' s most expressive ator
) works on a space station increasing the intelligence
and usefulness of apes
.
then a convenient time storm sweeps him up wizard
- of
- oz
- fasion
and drops him on an alien planet
.
( yes
, he survives this storm
,
but
then no storm is perfect
.
) he quickly finds
, not greatly to any surprise he shows
, that on this planet apes rule
and humans drool
,
but everybody talks
.
and the language they talk is earth
- english
. apparently it does not even occur to leo that there isnt a mystery that needs to be explained about that
. the fact it does not occur to leo
and apparantly didn ' t occur to tim burton either is the heart of the real horror ofthe this film
. both just assumed that if apes were going to talk the language tehy would speak would be english
. in any case hvaing one talking race dominating another makes this not a look at human
- animal relationships
and more one of the master
- slave relationships
. outside of sudan
and a faw other countries this is a less relevant topic
. leo is captured to be used as a slave
but also is discovered by ari
, played by helena bonham carter
. ari is an attractive ape with close ties to high political power
. she isnt bent on making the world a better place
. perhaps in a previous draft of the script she was called hil
- ari
. in any case with makeup that stifles her usual pout
, carter is just about as attractive as she has ever beeen in a film
. she may want to concider tihs to become her standard look from this point forward
. it is not long before leo escapes with some human
and only a cuple of sympathetic apes
. this is a further abandonment of the source material
. the chase severely limits the interplay of ape
and human
and teh examination of each ' s place in this reversed society
, each important in the book
. we cannot see how the society works because most of the screentime society has broken down
. we see thge humans either separated from the apes or fighting them
. burton chooses visceral thrills over cerebral ones at almost every turn
. this is a miscalculation
, as characters so lacking in empathy value are difficult ones to place much emotional investment in
. they are basically chess pieces
and the viewer has little reason to root for them to win
. the 1968 script had little subtlety
, witht lines like
" i never met an ape i didn ' t like
,
"
but at least we cared for what happened to taylor
, the main character
. most of what this film has to offer is in the visuals
. the visual work is spotty
but generally nicely done except that so much of the film takes place in the night or in fog
. this tends to limit close looks at the makeup
. inwhich general it seems much improved from 1968
. the makeup team is led by rick baker instead of john chambers
, who did it for the 1968 version
. in 1968 chambers makeup was a jaw
- dropper
. it was realistic enough to almost be believeable
but flexible enough to show emotion
. chambers is good
,
but if anyone had a chance to best him it would have to be baker
. today audiences have higher expectations
; baker ' s visualization is really an improvement
. these visuals work nicely
. what does not work is the wire
- assisted leaps some of the apes make
. they look liek they were inspired by the physics
- defying leaps of crouching tiger
, hidden dragon
. apes spring incredible distances
. some of the best scenes are apes running into battle looking like htey ahev ape posture
,
but when they start flying through the air the effect is lost
. one final visual problem is that tje film frequentily shows its budget in what shouldnt be spectacular battle scenes the camera shows us only a small group of people close
- up
. since the days of lon chaney
and boris karloff few actors have crossed over to stardom in a role that required heavy make
- up
. the one actor who has a shot is paul giamatti
. it is nto that his lines are so good
, most are silly jokes
.
but he delivers them very well
. he was always a watchable actor
,
but has not
yet made stardom
. as the ape
- trader limbo he over
- emotes to overcome his ape make
- uv
,
bu does it vrey well
. in doing so he mkaes himself the most interesting thing on the screen
. he isnt probably the best thing in the film
and conjures up memories of peter ustinov ' s performence in spartacus
. as an in
- joke there are several lines inaddition the scirpt borrowed from the 1968 film
and an old ape played by charleton heston becomes an allusion to the first film by itself
. danny elfman ' s score has a nice primitive feel
,
bu jerry goldsmith ' s 1968 tour de force score is a real classic
. that score
and the whole film will be remembered wehn the 2001 film is forgotten
. i rate the remake 4 on teh 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 on yhe
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.