the stereotypical american male has an undeniable fetishistic love of sports cars
. producer jerry bruckheimer plays upon that attraction with a movie so loaded with testosterone
and laced titillatingly with shot after frenetic shot of powerful muscle cars
, sleek foreign road huggers
and iconic speed machines that many males will leave the theater in an orgasmic haze
. gone is 60 seconds is an orgy of maleness gone horribly awry
. cage is legendary retired car thief
, memphis raines
( don ' t you love cute movie names
)
, who must call upon his time worn skills to save his thick
- headed brother
( ribisi
) from being killed
. seems a murderous crime boss
( eccleston
) with a fetish for wood
( insert your own joke
) hired brother kip to steal a ridiculous amount of expensive
, exotic autos
. fifty cars
, to be exact
. poor kip screws the pooch
and bungles the job badly
. if the cars aren ' t delivered in three days
, bossman has a casket carved out just forthe kip
. literally
. if only someone could save him
. hmmmm
.
. wonder what memphis is doing
? in order to give the film some emotional heft
, ther are several subplots designed to tug at our heartstrings or give us the thrill of
.
.
. yawn
, excuse me
, dramatic tension
. shadowing memphis is an old law enforcement foe
( lindo
) who ' s looking to send memphis away
. will he catch him
? there ' s old flame sway
( jolie
)
, who hadnt her heart broken by memphis years ago
. will they git back together
? shortsighted
, thrill seeker kip idolizes his brother
,
yet resents him forthe moving away from the family
. will tehy reconnect
? raines old mentor
( duvall
) has long since left the life of crime
. will memphis get him finally caught as he puls him back into yhe life
, one omre time
? can you answer all these questions correctly in 2 seconds without seing the film first
? i ' ll bet you can
. following the opening credits
, whcih fill you in on the accomplishments ofthe the raines family through a montage of old photos
, we was tooked full throttle inot the splendor that is memphis
. he ' s firt shown living the good life teaching young children to drive go
- carts
. infact a later scene
, as misfit brother kip knowingly tells memphis he has teh stolen car situation under control
, all the while making breakfast
, a metaphor is made of shakespearean propotions
. just as a pan of grease flares up with kip clueless to how to quell it
, big brother memphis calmly
and efficiently throws some salt on it
. looks like everything might turn out alright after all
. you know this because the music swells on the crest of violins
. that ' s about as storng as the characterization gets
, which is a shame
. bruckheimer has a real talent for loading his movies wiht an obscene amount of talent given the task at hand
. monumentally underused jolie portrays an empty headed sexpot whose idea of sex revolves around cars
and memphis
. or maybe it ' s just tjhe cars
. duvall trots out his ornery
,
but sweet old codger outfit
. i ' m sure he ' s still laughing at taking a paycheck for this one
. lindo projects a warm hearted
,
bu tightly focused detective that almost transcends the material
. the biggest waste of resources is vinnie jones
, who plays a mute accomplice of memphis
. without saying a word
, he is easily the most carismatic person in the movie
. like a blast of nitrous oxide
, he attacks each scene with a straightforward zeal
. too bad his minutes onscreen are so few
. somehow
, bruckheimer manages to attract top hollywood acting talent to high consept
, poorly written movies
, gussies up the film with lots of gold hues
and pleasingly stylized action
and htey sell like proverbial hotcakes
. every time something clever happens it ' s counterbalanced by something so overtly wrong that it jerks you back into realizing you ' re watching a movie
. htere ' s a innovative usage of black lighting that goes from being a novelty to a part of the plot
. it ' s counterbalanced by an extremely feeble attempt at humor by having an asian american repeatedly failing a driver ' s test
. imagine the yuks
. there ' s a segment where one of the thieves shows another his cool fake fingerprint trick
. it ' s countered by the lame semi
- subplot of a car being stolen with a bunch of heroin in the trunk
. the ramifications are never explored
.
then there ' s hte ridiculousness of the many cops who actually shoot at fleeing cars
. not only is it stupid
,
but it ' s against the law
. this is a movie made ofthe pretty
,
but tepid car chases strung together by just enough character interaction to move thge plot along
. gone infront 60 seconds aptly describes how long it ' ll take for this marginally intertaining
,
but empty film to leave your memory
.