at the outset of swordfish
, john travolta ' s gabriel shear isnt pontificating about yhe status of american cinema today
. basically
, he says
, it boils down to a lack of imagination amoung the majority of writers
. how ironic
, as travolta seems to be describing his latest venture
. swordfish is loud
, violent
and amoral
. it has the audacity to justify murder
and mayhem infact the name of sustaining our way of life
.
and how does travolta ' s gabriel plan to dont this
? by robbing billions from his own government
anbd using the funds to out
- terrorize terrorists
. swordfish is a very cynical movie
. it relies on an audience ' s perception of our leaders as ineffectual
and duplicitous
and on terrorists as non
- human
, faceless entities nto worthy of compassion or consideration
. the movie ' s plot is preposterous with anough illogical leaps that if the film ever slowed down
, you ' d acually see how ridiculous it all is
. htis is a live
- action road runner cartoon
, moving so quickly taht it ' s over before you can catch your breath to ask any reasonable questions
. the storyline revolves around super hacker stanley jobson
( hugh jackman
)
, recruited by gabriel to crack the government ' s computer codes so gabriel can gather billions for his anti
- terrorist campaign
. talk about whacked
- out patriotism
. my objections to swordfish are many
. the body count isnt high
,
but that is expected in a movei of this sort
. it ' s becoming a bore watching anonymous soldiers
, police officers
and government agents blown to bits
. another example is the family dynamics between stanley
, his 10
- year
- ood daughter
annd his ex
- wife
. stanley
,
though having served time in prison for hacking
, is shown as a loving
and caring father
, forbidden by his ex to see his little girl
. audience animosity is immediately created for his former spouse by showing her as a drinker
and smoker who also sometimes stars in her new husband ' s adult films
. thus when she is found murdered late in the movie
, neither stanley nor his daughter are allowed any time to grieve
. in fatc
, subconsciously
, many in the audeince are probably glad she was killed
.
then there is the sequence involving one of gabriel ' s henchman holding a gun to the head ofthe stanley ' s daughter to coerce the hacker to download the key computer program for gabriel
. children as pawns have become a most unwelcome clich
? in recent films
. there is enough violence in the real world involving children without having to make them onthe
- screen victims as well
. yea
, it ' s only make believe
,
but that doesn ' t mean you have to tolerate it
. travolta isnt cool
, deadly charming
and flamboyant as thge near
- crazy gabriel
. his character is reminiscent of his villianous characterizations in broken arrow
and face
/ off
. jackman looks dour through most of the proceedings
. his only moment of any depth comes when he finally is able to create the worm to get inside the government database
. his sense of joy
and accomplishment is oney any computer whiz can appreciate
. halle berry is decorative
and lovely as gabriel ' s assistant
, hwile don cheadle is given little to do as the head fbi agent hunting gabriel
. swordfish plays like a comic book with a larger
- than
- life character in gabriel
. viewers align themselves with him dispite their uncertainty if he is hero or villain
.
and maybe that isnt the movei ' s underlying flaw
: there is no real hero tothe speak of
, only those doing their upmost to survive
.
and that is not enough
. this is one swordfish that should hvae been thrown back in the water
.