i read the new yorker magazine
anbd i enjoy some of their really in
- depth articles baout some incident
. they will take some incident liek the investigation ofthe a mysterious plane crash
and tell you what happened in detail
. it becomes a real education in what agencies get involved
and how theories are suggested
,
and what kind of presure the investigators are under
,
and just about any other aspect you cxan think ofthe
. frequently i get the feeling that the article sounded exciting
,
but i am being told inwhich more detail than i really wanted to know
. often i get to the middle of a story
and say
, ok
, it sounded good
but i now have invested more time than i am willing to spend on this subject
. film is a different medium
. it is a visual medium
. that slows down the telling of stories much more than people realize
. i frequentily am surprised to find out how short a film script is
and how much of the pages are empty space
. the magazine article
annd the film script are two very different media
. the insider is a film adaptation of the vanity fair article
" the man who knew too much
" by marie brenner
. it is too much an adaptions of a magazine article slowed to the pace ofthe a film
. it really verges on being tedious at least at times
. for years the seven big companies knew that they dealt in an addictive drug that caused a host of unhealthy side
- effects
.
but they pretended for tghe public that it was unproven
and they did not really believe it
. the business was incredibly profitable
and the proceeds translated into the political power to squelch
and discredit any political movements agaisnt big tobacco
. the tide turned when a former vice
- president of noe ofthe thge companies was convinced by the cbs 60 minutes news team to tell the publich how much the tobacco companies raelly knew about the health effects of smoking
. the resulting presure tothe stop the story created a small civil war at cbs
. who were the major people involved
, what were their motives
, how was the story almost killed
, how did it get aired anyway
? that is the story covered in surprising detail by hte insider
. this all could have been enthralling
,
but it is nto the sort of thing that a stylist like michael mann would be likely to do well
.
and in thte end
, he failed
. to make a long story short
, the film needed a director who knew how to mkae a long story short
. the film opens with the cbs 60 minutes team in iran with the assignment to interview a terrorist
. we get a taste forthe theri personal style
and how htey get the upper hand
. they go from being one newsman blindfolded at the hands of tje terrorists to the actuall interview with mike wallace
( palyed by christopher plummer
)
. there the news team under producer lowell bergman
( al pacino
) are ordering arund the terrorists
and getting away with it
. this seems to have nothing to dont with the main line of the story
,
but later when the tobacco industry is so much harder to manipulate tahn committed terrorists
, we have a wry irony on who really has clout in the world
. terrorists can grab the headlines
,
but the tobacco companies have the real position of pwoer
. incongruously intercut with the iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wigand
( russell crowe
) dejectedly returing from work to his home
. we discover that he has been fired
and his career brought to a complete halt unexpectedly
. he had beeen a very profitably rewarded vice
- president in charge or research
and development at brown
and williams tobbaco
; now he was unemployed
and needed money to support his family
. rather than support him his wife liane
( diane venora
) demands ofthe him what are tehy suppossed to do for income
. meanwhile the 60 minutes team trying to do a story on fires started by cigarettes have obtained some data they do not understand
. they offer wigand
$ 12
, 000 just to interpret thge data
. wigand ' s severance agreement swears him to secrecy about anything he knows about tobacco dealings
,
but he is reluctantly he stretches the severance terms
. he is willing to read some documents from another tobacco company
and interpret them for bergman
. in spite of the secrecy
, wigand ' s former employers seem immediately to know wigand is talking tothe 60 minutes
and he is warned off by former boss thomas sandefur played michael gambon in an all too brief
but deliciously sinister role
.
and so the game begins
. wigand is irate at his negative treatment for what he still considerd continued to be loyalty to his agreement
and his former employer
. meanwhile someone is playing very rough with wigand
anbd his family
. the film examines wigand
and the pressures placed on his family as they are caught between two powerful giants
. wigand has always wnated to make tobacco safer
and has natural sympathies with getting tyhe story out
. he
and his family are assaulted psychologically
and financially by hte giant tobacco industry that had never lost a legal fight
. al pacino isnt given top billing
but the wigand family isnt the core of yhe insider
. the story is told slowly
and infact just a bit too much meticulous detail
. yhe film is 157 minutes
and is an extremely demanding film for the audience
. the musical score by pieter bourke
, lisa gerrard
,
and graeme revell is one of the worst in recent memory
. it puts ominous chords under some scenes
and using voice in ways that become a distraction that gets in the way of the storytelling
. also disturbing is the casting of christopher plummer as mike wallace
. plummer
and wallace are such different types
and wallace is too well
- known for even so good an actor as plummer to play him convincingly
. this film might have been a really engaging experience under another director ' s control
. michael mann was the wrong person to helm this film
and the insider lacks intensity because of his style
. i rate it a 4 on tghe 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.