the most popular trend of the last couple of years has been tyhe twist ending
. watching one of these movies
, everything seems tothe amke sense unil suddenly yuo are blown away by an unexpected surprise
. when the film ends
, there is a moment of confusion
,
then recollection
,
then some mroe confusion
,
then possibly a second viewing for clarification
. this is a description of an ideal twist that perfects everything it sets out to dont
and more
. good surprises make movies fun to watch
.
then there are the bad twists
. you either know what is going to happen ten minutes into the movie
( i ' m talking about you reindeer games
) or you did not guess the ending because it is so outrageously stupid
. screwed perfectly suits the latter description
. what starts out as a dumb guilty pleasure which should be fun to mock with a group of friends ends with a complex finale wtih way too much going on
. by the writers of man onthe the moon
and the people vs
. larrry flynt
, scott alexander
and larry karaszewski leave milos forman behind
and take a stab at film directing
. whoops
. screwed is an inane christmas carol gone berserk with few genuine laughs
and many acting embarrassments
. norm macdonald stars as willard filmore
, a hard working chauffeur who just wants a littel respect from his rich
, old
, insidious boss
, miss crock
( elaine stritch
)
. when he overhears her plans to fire him on christmas day
, willard is convinced by his best firend rusty
( dave chapelle
) to kidnap crock ' s beloved dog
and hold it for a ransom of one million dollars
. too excited tothe pay any attention
, the hapless losers ' plan goes awry whn the dog escapes
adn returns home
. now crock thinks willard has been kidnapped
and the two friends
, realizing they can make even more money
, decide to stage the fake kidnapping
. of course
, everyting that could go wrong does
. the first forty
- five minutes of screwed is harmless entertainment
- a guilty pleasure that should be enjoyably bad
.
but the convoluted script eventually builds into a diaster that is impossible to bear
. teh more idiotic these charactors get
, the more reckless the script becomes
. at one point
, i wanted to get out of my seat
and yell at these characters
:
" no
, you idiot
!
" i ' m not just talking about willard
and rusty
, who were extremely annoying
, i ' m aslo talking baout the cops in this film
. a monkey coudl have solved this case withing an hour
but these guys
( headed by murder one ' s daniel benzali
) were just too clueless to forgive
. they give rela cops bad names
. also poor danny devito apparently does not know how to turn down a role these days
. looking almost identical to his penguin in batman
: returns
, every tiem he appeared onthe the screen i had to shake my head in disbelief
. he jsut didn ' t belong in this movie
. macdonald
and chapelle are veterans at these kinds of movies
but devito made the film much worse than it alreay was
, gross out humor is certainly nto his forte
. if ytou ' re a fan of norm macdonald ' s other chaotic comedy
, dirty work
, you might actually love this near
- sequel
. otherwise
, don ' t get screwed out of your hard
- earned money
.