i suppose it ' s unfair to criticize a movie like hudson hawk
, which has been panned by reviewers
and moviegoers alike since it ' s 1991 release
. michael lehmann ' s action
- comedy was quick to win the title
` biggest box office flop of all time '
, or close thereof
. the movie stars bruce willis as renowned cat burglar hudson hawk
, who ' s just beeen released from sing sing prison after many years in isolation
(
` let me put it this way
, ' he explains
,
` i never saw et '
)
. greeting him is his old friend
and partner in crime
( palyed by danny aiello
)
, who becomes the subject of many amusing fat jokes
. these are rather welcome inspite a movei filled with so many completely unfunny sighth gags
, cartoonish villains
and unbelievable coincidences
. it appears as if director lehmann didn ' t know when to stop all the absurd silliness
,
and he piles on layer after layer of utter ridiculousness as the movie propels itself toward the finish line
. if at some point during hudson hawk you make the assumption tyhat things couldn ' t get goofier
, you ' ll soon be eating your words
.
but
, i ' m inclined to say that this film is not quite as terrible as it ' s box office numbers suggest
. it ' s fast
- paced
anbd entertaining
, if yuo ' ve got incredible patience
and a warped sense of humor
. for the first portion of this review
, i ' m going to try
and center on the postive aspects ofthe hudson hawk
. wish me luck
. frist
and foremost
: bruce willis is a ogod sport
. while i ' m not entirely sure what he was smoking when he co
- wroet this script
, willis is quite aware that the entire project is a big
, fat
, ugly joke
. he constantly gives deadpan reactions to things that are very silly
and out
- of
- place
, which means he has more tahn his share of deadpan reactions
. another plus is the appearance ofthe andie macdowell as a schizophrenic nun
and love interest for the title character
. they meet when hudson goes on a mission to steal a priceless book from the vatican
,
and their relationship escalates in interest from there
. it ' s unfortunate that mcdowell ' s one
- note character is used just as an excuse for there to be a predictable plot
- twist
,
and she offers absolutely no encouraging chemistry with willis
.
but now i ' m rambling on again about the negative things
, aren ' t i
? enough of the charade
- for teh most part
, hudson hawk is an excrutiating experience
. it ' s stupid
, pointless
and repetitive
. i can only wonder what bruce willis fans thought after exiting the theater
, because this film realy doesn ' t have the potential to please anyone
. acation fans should take note that hudson hawk is composed of 90
% comedy
,
and even the acation sequences are skittery
, rushed
and poorly edited
.
and those expecting a hearty laugh or twpo will find it difficult even to smirk during all of the headache
- inducing hi
- jinks
. don ' t get me wrong
, this film is not devoid of laughs
. it ' s too bad most of them are unintentional
, or just plain forced
. the impressive cast looks suitably embarrassed
. it ' s understandable tothe see willis
and aiello in a movie of this caliber
,
but as for the presence of future academy award winner james coburn i ' m not entirely sure
. coburn plays a fromer nemesis of the hawk who again comes into play
,
and he looks unsure of his place the entire movie
. especially whn he resorts to martial arts during the final showdown
,
and has a fight with willis that would look right at home in a jackie chan film
. things get more bizarre when we ' re introduced tothe his team of rejects named after chocolate bars
, including future nypd blue star david caruso as the speechless
, kard
- flipping kit
- kat
. if that ' s not enought for you
, there ' s richard e
. grant
and sandra bernhard hamming it up as a deranged couple on the brink of a convoluted economic takeover
. thier crotch
- biting pooch provides a couple of the big laughs here
. wait
, maybe the only big laughs
.
.
. i ' m nto sure what kind of movie everyone had in mind when filming hudson hawk
. i can ' t even begin to start about the film ' s absurd plot
;
but let ' s not get into that
. i suppose there ' s some amusement viewers could derive from teh ridiculous premise
, if they were that desperate
.
but hudson hawk never even has a clue of where it ' s going from minute one
,
and from there it ' s 90 minutes ofthe pure cinematic muck
.