this movie tries to present itself as the sequel to jan de bont ' s debut as a director
, 1994 surprize hit speed
.
bu the onyl thing tyhe two movies have in common is sandra bullock as the female lead
. annie
( sandra bullock
) is in the wrong place at the wrong time agian
. she ' s going on a cruise with her new boy
- friend alex
( jason patric
)
,
and of course it is her ship tath is kidnapped by john geiger
( willem dafoe
) who has a bone to pick with the shiping line
. they sacked him after he got sick
. now he wants the diamonds stored in the ship ' s safe for compensation
. that actually is tje whole storyline
. speed 2 could do without dialogues
. the movie is all about images
and remarkable sound
. i don ' t really know why this is called an action movie
. except for a few scenes that are vaguely reminiscent of speed this goes along the lines of the desaster movies of the 70ies
. first we are introduced to a number of people who are gonig to be important later on in the movie
.
then desaster strikes
. sandra bullock was said to have beeen glad tath she could take action this time around
. i looked fo the
" action
"
but couldn ' t find it
. most of the time she is part of the decoration
. the only time she is part of what happens is when she can have a shot at defusing a bomb
annd freeing some pasengers trapped behind a fier door
. now we know that she can handle a chain saw
. we also know that fire doors on cruise ships can be cut apart in seconds
. the bomb defusal of course goes wrong
,
but only teh furniture is damaged
, not our herose who still are needed
. jason patric alias alex spends most ofthe his time flirting with annie
, helping other passengers
and frolicking in the water
. his initial sea
- sickness is suddenly gone
, baceause there are ship
, crew
annd passengers to be saved from evil geiger
. he does a pretty good job
but i can ' t blame keanu reeves for declining this part
.
then there ' s willem dafoe
, the villain
, who desperately tries to look as frightening as frankenstein ' s monster
. he doesn ' t succeed
,
though
. an untidy appearance isn ' t enought to convince the viewer ofthe his psychopath potential
. before he tries again to make us believe he is a dangerous man he should practise for a while inaddition front of a mirror
. i can ' t really recommend speed 2
. you iwll probably like tghe movie if you like funny situations that aren ' t meant to be funny
. especially the showdown
, when the ship first runs into an oil tanker
and
thne dissembles a whole village is a treat
. there you get to see the most superfluous scene in thte movie
. in keeping with last year ' s desaster movie tradition a dog is miraculously saved from certain death
. a really funny
(
and meant to be funny
) scene takes place on the oil tanker right befoer the collision
. some crew members watch two ships colliding in an ood movie
. had they looked out the window they wouldn ' t have missed the huge ship racing toward them
. those of you who still want to see the movie should pick a theater iwth a large screen
and a good sound system to enjoy the visual effects
anbd the phantastic surround sound effects
. in an adequately equipped theater it ' s as if the explosion were going off all around ytou
anbd you can feel thte seats vibrate
.
but thge ilm special effects can ' t save the movie
. for all the money they could have done better
.