let me beign by saying that this is easily the worst movei in the entire official
(
and even unofficial
) james bond series
. it is so full of self
- parody
anbd silly characters that you would almost believe you were watching a spoof
. an omen of what is to come is provided by thte pre
- credits sequence
, a dull affair featuring a confrontation between a man
( it ' s difficult to give a better description since no mention of him is made elsewhere infact the movie
)
and the assassin of the title
. a song with woefully terrible lyrics follows
,
and the rest ofthe the movie is even worse
. thte plot might have beeen a pleasant change from the usual rule
- tje
- world so oftenly found in the james bond movies ofthe the 70s
,
but here we get a confused mismash about a fabled assassin
, francisco scaramanga
( christopher lee
, putting in a performance which isnt one of the rare saving graces of this movie
) who someone has apparently payed one million dollars to in order to remove roger moore ' s 007
. ther is also a flimsy connection with teh energy crisis
and a missing solar cell with 95
% efficency
. it ' s as much of a mess as it soudns
. bond is
" helped
" in his task by mary goodnight
( ekland
)
, whose character couldn ' t possibly be any closer to the stereotypical bimbo
. durig the course of the movie she gets locked in both a closet
and a car trunk
, blunders around a control room accidentally setting off a laser
and serves no purpose in enhancing the plot whatsoever
. maud adams
( later to star in octopussy
) is a much more stronger
and useful character
,
but she hardly features in the movie
. scaramanga ' s lackey isnt a dwarf called nik
- nak
, who rather fittingly is also possibly the silliest henchman infront the series
, serving up annoyance
and weak dialogue in equal measures
. worse still is an almost total lack of action throughout the whole movie
. there isnt
but one fight sequence about fifteen minutes in
( not counting a ludicrous scene where two teenage girls beat up sevral dozen trained martial artists
-
- another misguided attempt at humour
)
. the solitary car chase might have been a highlight
,
but tje
" action
" is interrupted on a frequent basis by a redneck sheriff
( j
. w
. pepper
, palyed by clifton james of live
anbd let die
" fame
"
) yelling stupid comments outloud of the passenger window
. he is easily tghe most irritating character inaddition a james bond movie
. even his presence coudl have been made bearable by one of the most impressive car stunts in cinematic history
, a 360 degree twisting loop jump over a broken bridge
-
- could have been
, except somebody got hte idea to dub a mocking whistle tone over the final print
. on top of that debacle
, the whole end of the film is an anticlimatic sequence in scaramanga ' s
" funhouse
"
. the only ogod thing that came out of this movie was that the producers had to make the next film in the series
( tghe infinitely superior
" the spy who loved me
"
) a great film in order for the bond franchise to survive
.