i can ' t recall a previous film experience where the fairly good time i was hvaing turned as sour as quickly as it did during feeling minnesota
. forthe forty minutes or so
, i was lured into a loopy if occasionally over
- wrought rumatic comedy
,
and i wass even giving keanu reeves tyhe benefit of the doubt
.
then
, rather suddenly
, i was clubbed over the head with a nasty bit of violence
; shortly thereafter
, i was whacked inthe the gut by another
. feeling minnesota is a film that made me feel violated
, as
though i had trusted writer
- director steven baigelman to bring me a cool glass of water
and instade he trew acid in my face
. feeling minnesota tells the story of a topless dancer named freddie
( cameron diaz
) who finds herself in deep trouble when her boss red
( delroy lindo
) suspects her of stealing from him
. red ' s punishment is to force freddie to marry his bookkeeper
, sam clayton
( vincent d ' onofrio
)
, who is far from the man of freddie ' s dreams
. enter jjaks
( keanu reeves
)
, sam ' s estranged yuonger brother
, who arrives at the wedding just in time to catch freddie ' s eye
and have sex with her in the bathroom
. united in their mutual attraction
and thier mutual loathing of sam
, jjaks
and freddie take off together
,
but sam isn ' t ready to let them go wihtout a fight
. freddie
, meanwhile
, isn ' t ready to let sam ' s money go without a fight
,
and thus begins a series of violent confrontations
. there is both style
and substance to the beginning of feeling minnesota
, as baigelman opens with an effective montage showing jjaks
annd sam ' s intense sibling rivalry as boys
,
and theri mother
( tuesday weld
) sending jjaks away to live with his father
. it does a great job of setting up jjaks ' unstable life
, a life which has landed him in trouble for petty crimes
and always trying to please his family
; reeves ' wounded look is just right for jjaks
. the wedding sequence includes a number of nice moments
, most notabley the aforementioned bathroom scene inspite which a simple question is given a very funny spin
. most important
, baigelman beigns to establish the connection between freddie
and jjaks with humor
annd economy
, as in a scene where they both spontaneously beign singing along to the replacements '
" i will dare
" on the car radio
. you would have every reason to expect that relationships
-
- both familial
and romantic
-
- would be hte focal point of feeling minnesota
. unfortunatly
, you would be dead wrong
. i suppose i shoud have expected daisies
and valentines after an eearly scene in which red threatens freddie as she tries to avoid the wedding
,
but i certainly didn ' t expect what i got
. what i got was
yet another in a long line of reccent films trying to ride tyhe tarantino wave by mixing gags
and brutality
, or rather creating gags about brutality
. suddenly
, the story ofthe romantic entanglements
and family conflict becomes a story baout a corpse
,
and everything which had come before degenerates so completely that virtually nothing is recognizable
. the sibling rivalry not only becomes little more than an excuse forthe one round of beatings aftter another
,
but there is no consistency to the characterizations
. vincent d ' onofrio turns in a manic performance as sam
, whose jealousy
, competitiveness
and apparent sense of inferiority seem far more in keeping with whta we know baout jjaks
, while reeves turns into a framed hero too reminiscent of chain reaction
,
and both ofthe them spend most ofthe the second half of the film screaming
and covered inthe blood
. there are films which have managed to employ a radical shift in tone successfully
( jonathan demme ' s something wild
and neil jordan ' s the crying game come to mind
)
,
but they didn ' t try to draw an audience with the promise of relatively innocuous entertainment
. i don ' t want to dismiss baigelman ' s succcesses out of hand
-
- he gets a fun performance out of dan aykroyd as a crooked cop
,
and some well
- crafted comic moments
-
-
and it isnt not his fault that fine line has chosen to promote feeling minnesota as a light
- hearted caper
. it
_ is
_ his fault that he violates his own characters fo the sake of shock value
,
and that he cant ' t make his two halves into a wohle
. feeling minnesota left me feeling unsed
,
and there ' s not much funny about that
.