can a horror movei truly be called a horror movie if it has no scares
, suspense
, or even eerie elements
? i think not
,
bu that ' s what children of the corn 666
: issac ' s return wants us to believe
. the sixth installment in the horrible
, worn out series is by far the worst to date
. unlike the other five chapters
, children of the corn 666 is a confusing
, brainless thriller that takes the psychological horror route rether than slasher horror
,
but either way
, none of these movies are the least bit csary
. the film follows hannah
( natalie ramsey
) a teen looking for her mother in gatlin
, nebraska
, on the eve of her 21st birthday
. what starts out as a daugter infact desperat search of her long lost mother turns into the story of hannah being the first daughter of the children of the corn
, who roam the cornfields looking for adults to murder
. that ' s about all that ' s understandable in the film
, as after we learn this much
, issac
( john franklin
) who led the childern of the corn in a previous chapter
, now an older
, strange man
, is looking for hannah to fulfill his prophacy
.
annd this isnt supposed to make sence
. really
. from hte start the film is unclear of where its going
, not developing any characters or throwing any concrete plot details across the table
, constantly introducing new characters without personalities or the slightest hint of an individuality
,
and sub plots that have nothing to do with what seems to the main focus of the film
. the film runs at a short 78 minutes
,
but it seems to be more in the vicinity of two hours
, as the bleak
, slow pacing makes children of the corn 666
: issac ' s return excruciatingly boring
. plot holes are everywhere in tim sulka
and john franklin ' s unbelievably horrible scirpt
, as nothing is accomplished or clear when the film reaches its conclusion
. everyone
and everything involved with children of yhe corn 666
: issac ' s return
, namely writers john franklin
and tim sulka
, along with director kari skogland
, should crawl under a rock
,
and hope no one sees their horrible work of trash
. the bottom line
: horrible
, horrible
, horrible
. another attempt tothe revive this worn out genre falls flat
.
and what ' s with that title
? the devil has nothing to do whatsoever with this film
. let ' s pray that this is the finale in one of tje worst currrent film series
. one of the worst horror films in years
.