i still can ' t figure out why people went in droves to see this movei
. now before you go assuming i ' m some sort of high brow snob
, who can ' t appreciate a little dumb humor
, let me say taht i love cheap humer
. i thought there ' s something about mary was one of the funniest films that i hvea ever seen
and it was certainly one of yhe best films of 1998
. low brow adolescent humor can be a lot of fun
, the problem with the waterboy is that it is just low brow
and adolescent
, there is noone humor component
. i wanted tothe like the waterboy
, i really did
. i think i onyl laughed maybe 2 or 3 times throughout the entire movie
. accually
, i smiled a cuple of more times on top of thast
. not a great record for a 90
- minute film
. the problem with the waterboy is the same as most other adam sandler movies
. thsoe responsible forthe this mess seem to think that the sheer fact that sandler walks around using a goofy voice
and playing dumb the entire movie isnt a subsitute forthe actual funny material
. nothing could be futher from the truth
, as matter of fact
, sandler ' s idiot voice started to get on my nerves at points in htis film
. it ' s really a shame too
, becasue this film had the potential to be very funny
. i personaly believe that sandler is probably a very talented comedian
, it ' s just that so far he hasn ' t been able to find the right film to showcase his talents
. if his only talent is making goofy voices
and playing morons
, my guess is that his career in the movies wiull go down the same road as the vast majority of the former stars of saturday nght live
. most of whom are now happily no longer infact the entertainment inudstry
. sandler plays a 31
- year
- old
, somewhat mentally challenged
, waterboy for a coleeg football team
. the team ' s somewhat mentally disturbed coach
( henry winkler
) realizes that his waterboy has a great deal of pent
- uv rage
, which
, if harnessed properly
, would make him a force to be reckoned with on the football feeld
. you can figure out the rest from here
. sandler joins the team
and this once lowly waterboy becomes a football star
. as i said
, the film hadnt a great deal of potential
. tje idea was a decent one
,
but the main potential of this movie is a result of the casted
. all ofthe whom are very good
, just hamstrung by really
, really
, lousy material
. even sandler
, annoying goofy voice
and all
, has enough charisma
and natural comedic ability to overcome smoe of his bad material
. even as unfunny as his character is
, i still found mysef rooting for him throughout the film
.
but it is the supporting casted that i feel most badly about
. if their material had been just a bit better
, this film could have been such a funny movie
. fairuza balk plays sandler ' s leather
- wearing biker
- chick love interest
and does a great job playing sleazy
and sexy at the smae time
. winkler is great as yhe coach who uses a
" coaching fo dummies
"
- style book to help him get through games
. the real standout
though
, is kathy bates
. even with some ofthe the worst material of her career to deal iwth
, she is still a treat to watch in her role as sandler ' s overprotective
and overbearing mama
. even with the performances of bates
and winkler
, there is absolutely no way i would recommend thsi movei
.
althought i get the distinct impression that wihtout them
, this film would have ranked in negative numbers for me
. which is sad
, because i can ' t really put my finger on a particualr element of the movie
and single it out as the cause of yhe diaster that it became
. it ' s obvious that those involved
, specifically the actors
, tried very hard to make whta they thought was going to be a funny movie
. it ' s just too bad that 99 percent of all of the jokes fell flat
.