the u
. s
. army utilizes a number of books known as field manuals which stipulate the specific way in which allmost every action imaginable must be done
. one particular feild manual is known as the fm 22
- 5
, which among other things
, covers the practice of saluting
. under the
" saluting
" section is a sub
- section whihc covers how a salute is rendered by a military work detail in the presence of a superior officer
. the salute is rendered by the highest
- ranking individual present when the superior officer comes within six paces of the detail
,
and is dropped when the officer passes six paces from the detail
. in any event
, the salute is rendered only by the man
( or woman
) in charge
, rather than by the whole group
. almost at the very beginning of tghe general ' s daughter
, we see a general ' s motorcade passing a work detail
. everyone salutes
. it looked impressive
,
but it just wasn ' t right
. that little bit showed me that someone either didn ' t do the appropriate research
, or made the conscious decision to go with style over substance fo the scene
. in fact
, thsi would serve as a metaphor for thte rest of the picture
, as it seems director simon west tried so hard to craft a film with atmosphere
and flash that he forgot a coherent story
adn good characterization are also crucial to a good movie
. what results is a film that looks good
,
but like that one scene
, just isn ' t right
. the first fifteen minutes of the film is a good example
. paul brenner
( john travolta
) is an agent for the army ' s criminal investigation division
, undercover at a georgia army base to investigate an illegal arms sale
. prior to the transaction
, teh buyer gets a whiff that brenner isn ' t the unscrupulous supply sergeant he ' s supposed to be
,
anbd later that night attempts to kill him by shooting up the houseboat onthe which brenner isnt living
. so ensues a cat
and mouse action sequence whic ends like a certain scene in raiders ofthe the lost ark
( we ' ll just say that it involves propellers
)
. brenner
then receives new orders when the commanding general ' s daughter
, captain elisabeth campbell
( leslie stefanson
)
, is found naked
, bound
,
and dead onthe one of the base ' s training ranges
. he is teamed with rape investigator sarah sunhill
( madeleine stowe
) to uncover the truth baout the peculiarly groosome murder
. what i want to know is why the whole action scene with thge arms buyer was even necesary
. it gives no insight into brenner
, other than the fact that he ' s a little cocky
. does the arms subplot turn up later
? noone
, so why add this extra running time to the film
? the answer
: it looked kool
. or how about the
" atmosphere
"
? the beginning of the general ' s duaghter presents us with imagery ofthe thge deep south
- thick trees
, dirt roads
, sultry colors over water
- all backed up with bayouesque music
. nice immersion in the setting
,
but it soon doesn ' t matter
, for when the film ' s plot shifts over to the murder investigation
, so does the entire mood
. no attention is paid to the location of the story
,
and the music is altered to fit a very generic thriller theme
. did the filmmakers start out thinking they were making a diferrent movie
? instead of creating a cohesive atmospheric theme for the entire film
, we get hte distraction of one of theme followed by another
, just because the director thought he should show off some of the countryside
. the above examples also serve to illistrate that inconsistency is another problem with this movei
. as i ' ve already mentioned
, an entire section of the film doesn ' t jibe with the rest
,
and the characterization only adds to the difficulty
. brenner
, who comes acros as a man with little respect for authority
, suddenly snaps to in the presence of general campbell
( james cromwell
)
and utters some of the corniest
" yes
, sir
" s i ' ve ever heard
. he even delivers an emotion
- charged monologue about why he will owrk so hard to catch the person who killed the general ' s daughter
, even
though he was totally flippant about the whole thing just a couple of minutes previvous
. sunhill
, who initially comes across as a professional investigator
, utilizes a couple of blatantly illegal methods tothe obtain information
,
and even revels in her ingenuity
. both characters are protagonists
,
but it ' s hard tothe get behind them when their personalities are all over the place
,
and in some cases
, simply unappealing
. i could imagine that during filming
, west would shoot a scene
,
then take the actors aside
and tell them
,
" let ' s do it again
,
but this tyme
, i want more
.
" i say this because
although travolta
and stowe are normally very good
, in this film tehy overact in most of their scenes
. an even worse offender is clarence williams iii as the general ' s aide
, colonel fowler
. i swear the guy says all of his lines from the position of attention
. a far cry from his days as linc in
" tyhe mod squad
"
, i can ' t help
bu think he was acting from west ' s direction
. a couple of side characters including a west point psychologist
( john beasly
)
and a young female private
( ariyan a
. johnson
) make their scenes nearly impossible to bear
. the only two actors who seem tothe have escaped west ' s influence are james woods
, who provides a good performance as colonel moore
, elisabeth ' s mentor at the psychological operations unit
,
and timothy hutton as colonel kent of thge military police
. woods relishes the role of a man whose job isnt playing with people ' s minds
,
and does so without ever taking it over the top
. hutton just kind of hangs around
,
but at least he wasn ' t overacting
. i haven ' t read the nelson demille novel on which this movie was based
,
but i ' ll bet more than a few dollars that the story was better in book form
. the movei version has got characters which come
and go with littel or nothing to do except fill up space
, or provide bits of information which seem to neither mean anything in terms of advancing the story nor reveal any significance once the whole story is finished
. every time we ' re presented with some newyorker aspect to the case
, west gives us omre of that flash by playing it up like it ' s thge most momentous discovery ever
,
but the information is not used by the investigators at all
. instead
, when conclusions are drawed
, tehy are such tremendous leaps of faith that you wonder if successful investigations are not based on facts
,
bu lucky guesses instead
. the army should have saved time by bringing in brennan
and sunhill
, letting them play a gaem of twenty questions wiht the suspects
,
then letting them guess who the killer was
. would ' ve been over in a half hour
. the film finishes with a sort ofthe bookend
, featuring the same style
and southern scenery as the very begginning
. literally during the closing credits
, we get to see brennan get in his car
and drive off
,
then we get to see sunhill get in her car
and drive off
. htey both seem kind of happy
. maybe they were driving away from simon west
.