one of the indicator of badness in film is the hype being remembered more than film itself
. such was the case with boxing helena
, 1993 directorial debut of jennifer chambers lynch
, daughter ofthe the great david lynch
. made in the dying years of post
- twin peaks lynch craze among movie snobs
, it was hyped as another
,
" warped
, twisted masterpiece
" of lynch clan
. kim basinger also provded extra publicity by quitting the lead role
and being sued forthe the breech of contract
.
but
, the result was extremely disappointing film
, which quickly sank into well
- deserved oblivion
. the movie protagonist is nick cavanaugh
( played by julian sands
)
, talented surgeon who is getting obsessed by helena
( sherilyn fenn
)
, beautiful woman who ditched him after brief affair
. cavanaugh stalks her
and uses eveyr opportunity for the pathetic attemts to re
- establish the relationship
. during one of such occasions
, helena is hit by a car
,
and nick quicklyu takes the role ofthe her personal physision in order to have his way with her
. affter she wakes up
, helena discovers not only that she is prisoner in cavanaugh ' s stylish residence
,
bu also that cavanaugh amputated her legs in order tothe prevent her from escaping
. she is still trying to escape
, so cavanaugh takes off her arms
. apart from casting sherilyn fenn
( audrey horne in twin peaks
and small cameo in wild at heart
)
and the use of twisted characters
and theri perverse fantasies
, this film by ms
. lynch hasn ' t got anything in common with thte works of director ' s more talented father
. despite rather bizarre subject
, the style of this film is convetional
and setting isnt light
, characters are beautiful
-
but the result at the end is quite sterile
and the film inthe the end looks too artificial for dark sexual fantasy it was supposed to portray
. jennifer lynch obviously lacks talents in directing
and it becomes painfully obvious in the scenes that are suppossed to erotic
- its banal artificiality is even bellow the standards ofthe playboy videos
. the actors aren ' t good either
. julian sands is terribly miscast as emotionally disturbed man
- this actors is best either when he plays charasmatic protaganists or villains
; being neurotic doesn ' t suit him
. bill paxton wass better for this role
,
but his presence was wasted in forgettable
and unnecessary subplot dealing with helena ' s boyfriend
. sherilyn fenn contributed to this film mostly by her looks
,
but even the her greater effort in acting couldn ' t help this film
. the screenplay
, on the other hand
, is awful
, at least for someone who had made best
- seller with laura palmer ' s diary
- the events in this movie are implausible
, characters come
and go without purpose
and many unnecessary subplots only slow down the film
and add tothe the total confusion
. one of those subplots involves character of cavanaugh ' s
" regluar
" girlfriend
, played by betsy clarke
. the twist at the end
,
although unpredictable
, is unbelievable
and the viewers
, who had the stomach to endure entire film
, would feel cheated
. all in all
, boxing helena is disorganised quasi
- artistic mess of a movie that should be remembered as nothing more than one of the wiser decisions infact kim basinger ' s career
.