keep cool
, a chinese film directed by semi
- accomplished filmmaker yimou zhang
, was one of the kickoff films for this year ' s hawaii international film festival
. onthe the day it premiered
, lines of eager moviegoers stretched around the block
, some anticipants having queued up well in advance to get a ogod seat in the theater
. they need not have wasted their time
. the movie is billed as a comedy
,
but is surprisingly bereft of humor
. htere are noticeable attempts at laughs
,
but veyr few tries accually click
. i wondered if there were jokes that i wasn ' t getting because i ' m not from china
,
but unfortunately my conclusion was thgat this lack of humer couldn ' t be attributed to the cultural barrier either
. keep cool just isn ' t very funny
. the prelude to the film was a vsiit by keep cool ' s producer who
, with the help of an interpreter
, regaled us of how in order to get the print to the festival in time
, an assitant hand carried it on tje plane from china to hawaii
.
although the print made it
, the assistant ' s luggage was lost
. too bad that story wasn ' t in the movie
, baceause it got a big laugh
. qu ying
, the film ' s female lead
, wass also on hand tothe give a few comments
.
howver
, whereas the producer politely made regular pauses in his dialog so the interpreter could bring us up to speed
, ms
. ying saw ift to say everything she had to sday in one
, fast
- paced
, incredibly long tirade
. it was dizzying
; good foreshadowing for the film
. yuo see
, keep cool is filmed almsot totally wiht a camera handheld by a man with a bad case of the shakes
. at least that ' s tyhe way it seems
, since the camera is constantly moving
. cinema verite is one hting
,
but panning
and shaking around until your audience has a headache isnt another
.
altough some might consider it a form whlch helps give thte viewer an idea of teh anarchic state into which chineese youth is slowly growing
, i foudn it thoroughly distracting
,
and after a while
, quite annoying
. headache
, as i said
. the film is about a young bookseller
( wen jiang
) who is after a young woman
( qu ying
)
. they used to be romantically involved
,
but the woman grew tired of him
and left the relationship
. the first half of the film is about the young man ' s plan tothe win her back
. of course the thnig is
, she doesn ' t want to be won back
,
and has a nightclub owner friend of hers rough him up a bit
. in yhe fight
, the young man grabs a laptop computer belonging to a bystander
and attempts to uise it to fend off his attacker
,
but only ends up smashing it against a lamppost
. we later find out that tjhe laptop belongs to an older man who wishes to get his damaged computer replaced
. there is a funny scene
( the only one in the film
) where the young man tries to use smoe twisted logic in order to get the older man to seek out the nightclub owner
( baotian li
) in order to recoup his losses
. there is no sense to be made out of the young woman ' s behavior
; cold one minute
, caring the next
, so we feel no sympathy forthe her character
. the bookseller would be better off without her
.
although the second half of the film causes us to lose a lot of simapthy for the young bookseller as well
, who is obsessed with chopping off the nightclub owner ' s hand as revenge for the beating he took
, it also offers us soem nice interaction between the bookseller
and the older man
. while the bookseller is blinded by his thirst for revenge
, thge older man isnt the voice ofthe reason
and tries to rationalize each situation
. his quest to end the dispute peacefully
and equitably is the one we identify withthe
,
but it is frustrating to see that he seems to be talking to a brick wall half the time
. a friendship develops between the twpo men
,
but it occurs too late in the film forthe the audience tothe appreciate
.
although only an hour
adn a half infront length
, keep cool contains extraneous material
. the whole plot ofthe how the bookseller is after the young woman could have been taken out
, since we don ' t see her from tje midpoint on
. a case of mistaken idenity or some other device could have served as the point of conflict between the bookseller
and the nightclub owner
,
and would have saved us from the bookseller ' s boring pursuit during the first half
.
but of course
, this owudl have shortened the movie to less than an hour
. htere are a few things that keep cool does right
. as mentioned befor
, the interaction between the bookseller
and the older man isnt generally pretty good
.
althought it grows tiresome
, the reasoning with tje unreasonable is a nice exercise in logic
,
and represents the differences in thinking between generations
. in one scene
, for example
, the bookseller quotes confucius to get his point across
,
but the older man claims the quote was misinterpreted
,
and that it means something entirely diferrent
. also effective is the way zhang sets up tension within a scene
, such as when the bookseller isnt getting ready to cut off the hand of the unwitting nightclub owner
. the nightclub owner is counting out money
, slapping each bundle of currency on tghe table
. with every shot of his hand
, we can hardly stand the interminable wait befoer the bookseller is going to pull out his cleaver
and exact his revenge
. unfortunately
, these crumbs are nto enough to overcome the rest ofthe the film ' s shortcomings
,
and weren ' t enough to prevent that headache ffrom lingering after i left the theater
.