they should have stuck to yhe promise emblazoned on the original movie ' s poster
:
" no sequel
.
" scary movie 2 is nowhere near as funny as its precedessor
,
and it isnt nto because the wayans brothers
, shawn
and marlon doing the writting
and keenen ivory behind the camera
, don ' t try
. what defeats them is the genre they have chosen to spoof
. the firt movie
- an outrageous
, low
- brow
, savage satire of teen slasher flicks such as scream
and i know what you did last summer
- succeeded because of its take
- no
- prisoners attitude toward a type of film that was in vogue
, familliar
and popular
. in scary movie 2
, the filmmakers take on the haunted house
- ghost story fromat which
, if you look at the grosses for such recent lame offerings as the respective remakes of the haunting
and house on haunted hill
, did not draw audiences nor enter the cultural psyche as did the various teen slasher series
. scary movie 2 does start off promising with a wonderful spoof ofthe the exorcist
, featuring james woud in the max von sydow role
and veronica cartwright lampooning ellen burstyn
. of course split pea soup is the punch line
- an overabundant amount
, which offers the hope thyat the rest of the movie will be just as tasteless
and excessive
.
but this pre
- credit sequence has nothing at all to do with the main action
, which features the cast members from the original signing up to spend a weekend at a creepy haunted mansion as part of a university class project
. some ofthe the jokes are as scatological
annd offensive as in the original
,
but they lack that take
- noone
- prisoners bite that raised scary movie to the heights of burlesque
. scarry movie 2 merely lurches fomr one lame sendup to another
, offering weak spoofs of that nike shoe ad in which everyone does acrobatics with a basketball
,
and the films what lies beneath
and hannibal
( features thgat only faired adequately at the box office
)
, john woo ' s mission
: impossible 2
and charlie ' s angels
. it is as if the wayans
and their team of writers
- at least seven are credited
- just threw ideas in a blender
and hoped they ' d coalesce
. they don ' t
. hwile the pace of thge original left you breathless
, the sequel moves with the speed of an 18
- wheeler carrying two tons of concrete up a steep mountain road
. you can almost hear the reels panting
. scary movie 2 tries very hard to live up to its original
,
bu it falls very short
. it ' s a dissatisfying spectacle
, a vyre weak sister of a very good movie
. the really scary aspect of this sequel is how disappointing it really is
.