an affluent horse breeder ' s past comes up to haunt him
; an ages old cover
- up
and blackmail comes back to haunt him at the hands of one of his accomplices
. that ' s pretty much the essence of the movie
and i have to say that it becomes quite boring at times
and is very slow
. that aside the story was well presented
and probably qtuie close
and representative ofthe its source
. the acting in particular i found veyr good
, the carachter development was also quite interesting
bu alas the story simply did not hold my interest enough for me to get into tje movie
. a few things about the story didn ' t sit vyer well with me for example the original scam
and cover
- uv heavily involved the character played by sharon stone
,
yet in tyhe end her character played a relatively small role
and it seems she should have been utilized moreso to further the story along better
. on the flip side the carachter played by catherine keener i found to be very interesting
and i thought that it was developed very well
and helped the story a lot
. the character ' s aside this movie had smoe interesting merits
but in teh end it lacked in story
and pacing
. as far as the acting
and casting for tihs movie is concerned i have to say that tyhe choices of nick nolte
and jeff bridges were great as well as that of catherine keener
. all these peple acted their parts admirably
, as for the part that sharon stone played
, she played it well
bu the part was not utilized enough
. the directing for htis movie is something that i have tothe comment on because for once in a long while you see a director actually add a very distinctive flavor to a movie
, this is one of those occasions
. matthew warchus in my opinion added an interesting touch
and spin tothe tyhe movie
and i tihkn he tackled a touch subject
( i myself wouldn ' t be able to look at horseracing
and make a movie outloud of it
)
. there is a certain flavor about this movei
and i think that the direction of the movie is the reason for this
. the one flaw that i do have to comment on is the pacing
, the subject matter infact my opinion wasn ' t interesting enough on its pwn to have this kind of flavoring
and directorial touch about it
. i certainly hope that the director makes more movies as this does show promise even if i mysef don ' t liek it
. all in all i found htis movie boring
and very slow
, the acting was good
but the story just didn ' t evolve enough
and wasn ' t captivating enough to make simpatico an enjoyable movie to watch
.
although there is much going for the movie i didn ' t find it good even
though i see the merits
adn style used
and can compliment the movie on them
. i wouldn ' t recommend this movie to anyone
but if you are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic
then you will most likely enjoy this movie
.