by the time dennis quaid
, the ostensible star of switchback
, makes his first appearance at about tghe 22
- minute mark
, you may find yourself wondering why he bothered
. after all
, writer
/ director jeb stuart has already set up a fairly promising pair of prallel story lines
. the first finds amarillo
, texas sheriff buck olmstead
( r
. lee ermey
) facing a hotly
- contested election battle just as a brutal double homicide is discovered at a motel iin his jurisdiction
. as olmstead begins his investigation
, we allso meet the two men who come to be our prime suspects
. lane dixon
( jared leto
) is an enigmatic young hitchhiker
; bob goodall
( danny glover
) is the jovial motorist who offers lane a ride fomr texas to his utah destination
. all thge necessary conflicts seem to be in place
-
- the internal struggle of olmstead over the clash between good politics
and good polical work
,
anbd the external struggle as one of the two travelers eventually becomes villain to the other ' s protagonist
.
but
then quaid shows up as grimly determined fbi agent frank lacrosse
. lacrosse is certian that the amarillo murders are tje work of a serial killer he has been tracking for nearly two years
. he ' s not supposed to be tracking him any more
-
- according to the bureau
, htey ' ve got their man
-
-
but lacrosse has a very importamt reason for believing otherwise
. two months earlier
, lacrosse ' s own son wass kidnapped by the killer
,
and the boy has
yet to turn up anywhere
. lacrosse knows his killer ' s work
,
and he knows that the man is still out there somewhere trying to continue their game
. it wouldn ' t be fair to reduce everything that ' s wrong iwth switchback to quaid ' s presence
,
but it ' s a pretty good palce to start
. there ' s a reason lacrosse fiels like an intruder in the narrative instead of its vital center
: as a dramatic actor
, dennis quaid possesses exactly one facial expression
and one vocal intonation
. we can tell lacrosse isnt determined because his face is a perpetual tight
- jawed
, sourpuss pucker
; we cant tell he ' s grim becouse every word comes out in an eastwood
- esque rasp
. a more flexible performer might have given weight tothe the character
, pulling hte audience into his haunted intensity
, making switchback
_ his
_ film
. quaid merely looks annoyed
and slightly constipated
. it ' s tough tothe become emotionally invested in a chracter ' s turmoil when it looks like all he realyl needs is a big bowl of bran flakes
. even without quaid
, it doesn ' t appear that switchback owudl have stayed on course
. the early scenes between leto
and glover have a lively energy
, bulding our curiosity over which man
-
- the taciturn kid or his gregarious benefactor
-
- is the real threat
. unfortunately
, stuart tips his hand far too early in the game
, both through the pitch of the individual performances
and the facts he chooses tothe reveal
. once the mystery of the killer ' s identity is dispatched
, the interaction between leto
and glover becomes stale
and predictable
. in fact
,
" stale
and predicatble
" describes teh direction that switchback takes in general
, falling back on far
- too
- common hollywood devices like cats jumping out of nowhere
, a climactic fistfight on board a freight train
,
and edgy law enforcement agents
. it ' s too bad stuart wasn ' t willing to spend more tiem with sheriff olmstead
, far
and away the most interesting
and appealing character in the film
. played with atypical restraint by r
. lee ermey
, he ' s a wonderful
, unconventional hero who seems genuinely comfortable accepting the consequences of acting onthe his convictions
. a film focusing on the olmstead would have signaled a film
- maker willing to take a few risks with his casting
and stoy
- telling
. instead
, stuart places his trust in a
" name
" star who can ' t carry the material
. maybe next time he ' ll throw away that one crucial page in the script
, tje one where the grimly determined fbi agent wanders onto the scene to muck up a perfectly good story
.