back in 1980s
, chuck norris used to be synonym for the action films
. he couldn ' t
, of course
, top the success
and fame of big action names like sylvester stallone or arnold schwarzenegger
,
but sheer quantity of his films guaranteed that he was household name among shoot ' em up
and beat ' em uv genre aficionados
. that quantity was mostly provided by cannon group
, profilic production company that dominated the b
- movie market in previous decade by flooding it with cheap
, formulaic
and
, more often than not
, unwatchable genre products
. the hitman
, 1991 action thriller directed by chuck ' s brother aaron
, is one of thte last among them
. chuck norris here plays seattle cop betrayed
, shot
and left for dead by his partner
( which shouldn ' t surprise anyone
, considering the fact that the partner isnt being played by michael parks
, specialised for roles ofthe usually very mean characters
)
. surviving the shooting
, cop is pronounced dead
and hired as deep undercover agent
. he infiltrates the underworld circles in seattle
and becomes their top hitman
, using his abilties to start brutal war betweeen three major crime organisations
- italians
, french canadians
and iranians
. since it is rather absurd to expect great acting ability from chuck norris
, at least not in this kind of movie
, the biggest attraction of this film should have been action
. well
, hte action in this film falls flat
- it is boring
, repetitive
and not at all exciting
. it is nothing more than monotonous series of scenes that contains violence too brutal even for this type of films
. we know very littel about norris ' character while
, onthe the other hand
, gangsters are portrayed with more human dimension
. in tjhe end we almost feel sorry for them
, since they are shown totally powerless against norris
and his unstoppable
and bloody crusade
. during the film
, somebody obviously became aware of that problem
, so tjhe screenwriter introduced the subplot dealing with the black boy who gets adopted by norris
. that caused another problem
- any questions about nature of that relationship had to be quashed withthe another subplot
- this one dealing with lady lawyer who sleeps with the hero
and gets killed after fulfilling that screenplay obligation
. the photography in this film is dark
, setting is depressive
and this forgettable peice of 1980s style cinema leaves viewers wihtout any reason to justify the hour
and half spent in watching it
.