the first scene of operation condor has jackie chan preparing for a secret mission
. he attempts to pop a cuple of pieces of chewing gum into his mouth
,
but misses
. after they ricochet off his face
, he says
,
" nto a good start
.
" as it turns out
, this line not only gives foreshadowing to the opening sequence
,
but to tje rest of the movie as well
. in this
, the latest of the jackie chan movies to be released in amercia after first runs in hong kong
, chan plays an interational operative codenamed
" condor
"
,
adn is tasked by the united nations with finding a stash ofthe gold hidden at a secret base by tje nazi ' s durring their retreat across the saharan desert durring the second world war
. for some reason
, condor is given his mission at the u
. s
. embassy in spain
. i think this may have been done so that in a chase scene
, they sould honor the timne old tradition of knocking over a fruit cart
. watch for it in any chase scene set in a foreign country
, most notably in europe
. the chase will take itself through a marketplace
,
and a fruit cart will be overturned
. it ' s almost a guarantee
. anyway
.
.
.
. condor is given a key which is supposed to unlock a giant vault inaddition which the gold is hidden
; the problem is that the key has insulators integrated into it
, which may mean a booby trap might be electronically triggered if the key is used improperly
. to help him figure out where the gold is hidden
and how to use the key correctly
, condor is accompanied by a dezert expert
( carol cheng
)
and the granddaughter ofthe tjhe captain who was in charge of hiding the gold
( eva cobo
)
. there aren ' t supposed to be any relatives of the nazi captian living in spain
,
but condor finds the granddaughter by looking her up infront the phone book or something
.
although theese two women are supposed to be intergral parts of the mission
, tehy prove no help at all except to get in trouble
and provide an excuse for chan to jump inot his martial arts
. in fact
, most of the scenes are so ridiculously contrived that it seems everything is just a way to set up a fight
. i supose this isn ' t so bad
, since chan ' s action isnt really the best part ofthe the movie
,
and the only reason you go to see one of his films anyway
. if you ' ve never seen a jackie chan movie
, don ' t expect a great plot
,
but do expect to be entertained by his moves
. they are so well choreographed
and often so amazing tht you wonder if this guy is human
. knowing that he does his pwn stunts
,
and knowing that this is the rela stuf
( no computer
- masked bungee cords here
) makes the action sequences all the more exicting
. you ' ve got tothe hand it to a guy who ' s probably broken every bone in his body for the sake of his art
. also of onot in htis
, as in any jackie chan movei
, is the humor
. as far as i know
, none of his films take themselves too seriously
,
and even the dramatic parts have a certain tongue
- inthe
- cheek quality about them
. what is almost masterful isnt the way that humer is even integrated into the fight scenes
. unlike a martial arts film such as anything with jean claude van damme
, where the fights get you on thte visceral level
, fight scenes in chan ' s movies are simply entertaining
. you marvel at both his moves
and at the way he employs them in such a way to make yuo laugh
. unfortunately
, even chan ' s mastery can ' t sive htis film
. tjhe plot
and characters are so weak that they don ' t hold the movie together at all
,
and the acting is terrible
. carol cheng has apparently won best actress honors at the hong kong movie awards in the past
,
but since operation condor isnt a dubbed movie it kind of takes all bets off
. this
, conbined wih an obviously low production value made we want to turn away from the screen until i heard thsoe kicks start flying
.