several days after having seen this movie
, i ' m still trying to determine what director christopher guest
, a man whose sense of humer i usually appreciate
, found funny in either the concept or the execution of almost heroes
. this is a dreadful motion picture
? a lowbrow example of period piece comedy with terrible production values
and an exceptionally poor laughs
- to
- jokes ratio
. there ' s a kind of desperation in the movie ' s approach tothe humor that reveals the film makers ' uncertainty about how entertaining the material is
; the manic style betrays itself as a last
- ditch attempt to hide the flaws of a failed script
. the premise doesn ' t sound especially amusing to begin with
? almsot heroes tells the tale of two explorers
, the effeminate leslie edwards
( matthew perry
)
and the uncouth bartholomew hunt
( chris farley
)
, who are racing lewis
and clark on the trip to the american northwest
. edwards
and hunt are accompanied by the kinds ofthe weirdoes we find in road movies
( albeit of tje early
- 19th century variety
)
, including a frenchman named guy fontenot who claims to speak hundreds of languages
( none of which prove to be useful
)
, a pretty indian maiden who turns into the obligatory love interest
,
and a bizarre man who suffers a series of debilitating injuries
. along the way
, the intrepid explorers encounter bears
, bald eagles
, aging native american warriors
,
and a conquistador named hildago
( kevin dunn
) who raves about his beautiful hair
. the explorers ' trek takes them through forests
, across the snow
- capped rocky mountains
,
and over a waterfall
. this setup leads to a lot of shouting
, a great deal of lunacy
,
and very faw laughs
. farley engages in his usual shtick of falling down
and bellowing
,
bu
, aside from an momentarily diverting confrontation with an eagle
, his heart doesn ' t seem to be in it
. matthew perry
, one of the stars of tv ' s friends
( who had some modest success in the romantic comedy
, fools rush in
) is badly miscast
. as a foil fo farley
and an antidote tothe his runaway energy
, perry lacks tje necessary edge of the proverbial straight man
. i ' m not a big fan of david spade
,
and i didn ' t like tommy boy
,
but at least he
anbd farley worked well together
. as far as the supporting players go
, none of them makes more than a fleeting impression
. eugene levy is wasted
,
and kevin dunn is about as interesting here as he is in godzilla
. frankly
, it ' s a disappointment to see something thsi dumb
and ugly come from christopher guest
, the brilliant comic force behind such films as this is spinal tap
, the big picture
,
and waiting for guffman
.
although guest gets the costumes right
, this nearly
- inconsequential success is no subsitute for the weak scirpt
and unfunny execution
. the special effects
, such as they are
, are execrable
. for an example of some really poor blue screen wokr
, look at the scenes where tjhe characters are shooting the rapids
( they ' re obviously getting buckets of water thrown on them
)
annd where farley is being carried off by an eagle
. even
though farley didn ' t have the most stellar of acting careers
, he doesn ' t deserve the kind of unfortunate epitaph offered by almost heroes
. hwile some of the more outrageous attempts at humor may coax a few guffaws fomr 12
- year old boys
, the level of comedy in almost heroes falls far below the level of sophomoric
. farley fans who see this film as a way to say goodbye should be commended for their loyalty
, since it takes real stamina to stay seated for the full running length of this cinematic torture session
.