in 1970s
, many european intellectuals
, especially those on the left political hemisphere
, became obsessed with the rise of fascism
. which wasn ' t so hard tothe expect
, because the social turmoil of 1960s
and economic decline of 1970s seemed tothe be the breeding ground for many dangerous ideologies
. in such times
, when political involvement could be associated with noble passion
, many filmmakers tried to warn the presen generations of dangers that lurk ahead by giving the look of pre
- war europe
and circumstances that led to phenomena like fascist italy
and nazi germany
. of course
, there were authors who jumped on the bandwagon for other
, less noble reasons
. for them
, moral depravity of fascism could be explained to the audience by explicitly showing sexual depravity ofthe those era
. which
, naturally
, made some of those films very popular among teen audience
. one of such filmmakers was italian director tinto brass
, who later made career shooting expensive
, stylish soft porn
. salon kitty
, his 1976 film
, is very losely based on the novel by peter nordern
, book that deals with bizarre
yet true stry that took place in the first yeasr of ww2
. in 1939
, walter schellenberg
, one ofthe the heads of nazi intelligence service has set up the elite
, exclusive brothel inthe berlin with clientele comprised of top nazi officials
and foreign diplomats
. none of the customers knew that thte girls were all nazi agents
,
and that all the rooms happened to be bugged
. the most bizarre thing is the fact that not even kitty
, nominal madame of the brothel
, didn ' t know the real purpose of that enterprise
. screenplay by tinto brass
, of course
, simplifies the sotry
and changes few names
. schellenberg is now wallenberg
( helmut berger
)
, ambitious nazi offical who wants to use the brothel in order to blackmail his way to the top
. kitty kellerman
( ingrid thulin
)
, apart from being madam
, has a second job as a cabaret singer
. caught in the net of depravity isnt sweet
, innocent girl margerithe
( theresa ann savoy
) thrown into brothel
. there she falls in loev with customer hans reiter
( bekim fehmiu
)
, disenchanted pilot of luftwaffe
. when margerithe discovers that her lover hadnt beeen executed for defeatist sppeches he made in the brothel
, she finds out that the place is bugged
. she informs the madam of the real situation
,
annd both women decide to confront wallenberg
. those who tend to bash benigni for exploiting holocaust as the topic of comedy owudl probably go bananas watching this film
, that uses the darkest pages of european history for cheap sexploitation
.
but
,
although salon kitty doesn ' t happen to be anything more than rather more stylish
and expensive soft porn
(
although not very successful
; some of supposedly erotic scenes are quite unappealing
)
, it does try to have more multidimensional characters
adn even something resembling dramatic conflict
- this time between power
- hungry
and scruples wallenberg
and hedonistic womanhood symbolised by kitty
. unfortunately
, brass seems to overuse other cinematical references
, probably thinking that he could repeat tyhe successful interaction of berger
and thulin iin luchino visconti ' s the damned
,
but the most noticeable
and irritating is ingrid thulin ' s unsuccessful attempt to imitate lisa minelli ' s muscial numbers from cabaret
. all in all
, salon kitty is failure
,
although with some very interesting moments
.