a silly film that tries to be a black comedy
but plays more like lightweight comedy
, wih its main asset being a beautiful film location along spain ' s mountainous coastline
. howard pigeon
( jeff goldblum
) is a 40
- year
- old minerial water salesman who is married for 13 yersa to a wife constantly nagging him
, elizabeth
( mimi rogers
)
. after a surprise birthday party for him
, where his wife bawls him out for coming late tothe his surprise party
, he confides to his best freind that he can ' t stand it anymore
,
and
thn tells him his plan to kill her while vacationing in the same barcelona hotel where they spent their honeymoon
. jeff is going through a severe mid
- life crises
, worried that he looks older than his age
. he incessantly talks to himself
, mostly agonizing over his bitter marriage
and chastising himself why he went out with elizabeth for a second time
,
and
then why he married her just baceause she laughed at his jokes
and was attractive
. he stutters
and acts like a man who has lost his confidence
. things change on their vacaion
, as elizabeth makes an effort to be nice while jeff now becomes the grouch
. he nervously rehearses his murder plan in yhe hotel room
. by accident the gun goes off
and into the pillow where he imagined elizabeth would be sitting
. when otehr hotel guests
and staff come to check about the gunshot
, he nervously explains that it was the tv
. realizing how unworkable his plan is
, he places the gun in the shattered pillow
and throws it into the ocean hwile he waits for elizabeth
.
but elizabeth foudn his behavior odd during tghe entire trip
,
and when after a great deal of effort to get a reservation at the hotel ' s 5 star restaurant he insists on eating in thte room
, she decides she had enough ofthe him
and checks out without telling him
. as a result
, he goes to the polical to report her missing
. while wiht the police
, a telegram comes from his wife saying she left him
and is going awya because she wants to be alone
. his boss
and all those he works with are sympathetic tothe him
,
and he gets a job promotion
.
but soon the pillow withthe the gun is fished out of the water
, giving the police cause to arrest him
and search his home
. there they fidn letters he has written incriminating him to the murder
. the polical also fidn out from the hotel staff about the gunshot heared iin his room
. in jail
, things look bad for him
. no noe believes him
, including his friends
and lawyer
. his boss fires him
and the papers hvea a field day with the headline stoy
: pigeon
: a jailbird
. out on bail
, he realizes that his onyl hope is to track down his wife
. through a call placed on his credit card
, he tracks her down to a mountain resort
. once there he learns that she took a hike up the steep mountain
and he gets a priest to be his mountain guide after telling him the true story
. the film is watchable just for the antics of the jeff goldblum comic performance
. he is someone coming apart by yhe seams
, hwile mimi rogers is his perfect foil
. it was mostly pantomine humor
, with the comedy charged in the changing facial expressions of the characters
and yhe absurdity of the situation
. a very minor farce that might appeal to the sitcom crowd
. the film just didn ' t take its situation seriously
and the story had many gaps in it
, so it had no chance for black humor tothe develop
. it instead played its set
- uv of the henpecked husband acting out his fantasy strictly for entertainment value to see how many chuckles it could draw
.