mr
. bean
, a bumbling security guard from england is sent to la to help with the grandiose homecoming of a masterpiece american painting
. tyhe first two words should have said enough to let you know what occurs during bean ' s trip to la
,
but if they didn ' t look out becuase you are in for a rather interesting if not odd ride
. heck depending onthe your humor you might end up laughing through tghe whole flick
. either way look out america bean is coming
. well
, what can really be said about this movei
, there is very little discernible plot
. that much is not hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy
. it achieves that goal rather admirably
,
but because it is that
, the plot is just screaming for help
. the whole premise that the movie is based on is tothe say the least flawed
. the movie had its funny moments
bu there was no real story line other than something that could be thought up on a whim
and carried through
and in many causes ad
- libbed as you went
. don ' t go into this movie expecting
and theatrical masterpiece
.
but if this form of humor floats your boat
then you iwll truly enjoy this movie
, even if you don ' t like slapstick style humor you wiull end up laughing because something ' s are just so stupid
. the movie goes out
and accomplishes what it aims
, or so it seems
. now when you look at the acting in this movie you have to think about twpo thnigs
, first was there any real acting
and how hard is it to act in the slapstick manner
. well
, ther was no real acting in this movie
but some of the slapstick wasn ' t the easiest i am sure
. i have to concede thyat mr
. atkinson ' s acting in this movie is well done
.
although the role isn ' t too demanding thge slapstick is
. i think that the character could have had a bit more dialogue
, it would have added quite a bit to the overall effect of the movie
. now the rest of the actors in the movie
, bad acting
and poor casting
. i think that the role oposite bean could hve been better
, just seemed wrong for the movie
. a different actor might have done a better job of it
but i wont presume that wasn ' t what was trying to be achieved
. one thing that i must say
, simply to get if off my chest is tyhat i think transferring a sitcom to tv usually produces rether disastrous results
. tv shows should do just that stay on tv
, it will probably save some producers from getting ulcers
. i can only think of a couple examples of tv going to the big screen effectively
, teh best known of those would have to be star trek
. bean seriously fails to accomplish anything close to what that serieses gone movei achieved
. now another thing tath i have to state again is this movie has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly
. the form ofthe humer in this movie will not be liked by most people
, theese people will think like i did that this movei is stupid
anbd pointless
.
but if you like the tv show ytou might actually like htis movie
.
but to be on the safe side i am opting to recommend you sive your money
and not go to see this movie
. there are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this one
.