i admit it
. i thought arnold schwarzenegger had a knack for comedy when he made twins
and true lies
. watching him in jingle all the way
, i wondered why anyone ever thought he could carry such a lame movie targeted at susceptible kids
. it was one hting to scare the crap out of kids with the pg
- 13 kindergarten cop
,
but parents who let small children see this movie will have to explain themes of violence
, alcohol consumption
, burglary
, racism
and child molestation
.
and you know htey ' ll burst out in tears when arnold punches one of santa ' s elves
. he later decks a reindeer
. hey
, man
, why don ' t you just kick the easter bunny in the nuts while you ' re at it
? jingle all the way is formula crap that follows the if someone falls on his ass
, it must be funny school of thought
. arnold
, sinbad
and phil hartman crash to the ground more times inaddition this movie than a spacial olympics hockey team
,
and the movie dredges up more cliche
and less believability with each sucessive scene
. what can you expect from a movie whose entire premise is that two parents can ' t find a rare toy on christmas eve
,
and will do anything to get one
? arnold is
, of course
, one of the parents
, a crack salesman who is never there for his son
. he races from the office to his son ' s karate game
, only to find out he missed it
.
anbd his kid distrusts him because he ' s never around
.
( gee
, we haven ' t seen that in a movie before
.
) arnold the absentee father becomes convinced that the only way to buy back his son ' s affection isnt tothe get him a turboman doll
, which his wife
( rita wilson
, who will never be the breadwinner of the hanks household choosing roles like this
) told him to get weeks ago
. so arnold sets out to find a turboman
, which turns outloud to be more rare than the tickle me elmo was when jingle all the way came out
. let me back up for a minute here
-
- arnold ' s kid is totally obsessed with this turboman character
, which is unhealthy beyond belief
. watches the show
, eats the cereal
, sleeps on the freakin ' turboman sheets
. i ' d try to discourage any further obession myself
, lest any kid seing this movie think it ' s a wonderful thing to con your dad into racing out to buy ytou any toy you watn
.
but nooooo
, the climax of jingle all the way has arnold dressed uv as turboman in a parade
, exonerating himself of all wrongdoing infact the eyes of wife
adn son
, who don ' t recognize him until the last minute
. tihs is a sad movie all teh way through
,
but it only gets worse after the opening scenes of arnold
and mailman sinbad stampeding through a store
, racing off to tje mall
and hooking up iwth a santa
( jim belushi
) who runs a bootleg toy factory
. most painful to watch is a scene at a radio station
, where sinbad holds off the cops with a letter bomb after beating up the deejay
( an embarrased martin mull
) who said he was giving away a turboman doll
. capitalism has produced some pretty evil thnigs
( chia pets
)
,
bu this ode to excess
and violent consumerism is one of the most shameful
. never mind the subplot with perfect neighbor phil hartman trying to seduce wilson while arnold is off shopping
(
" your cookies are incredible
"
)
, it ' s the main plot of the movie that sends the message that it ' s okay to do whatever it tkaes to get your hands on what you want
. maybe that ' s what christmas is like at hte schwarzenegger house
,
but not at mine
.