starring shawnee smith
; donovan leitch
; ricky paull goldin
; kevin dillon
& billy beck the blob is the remake of the 1960 ' s classic
( a term that i ule very loosely to define the original
) about a really mean glob of goop that takes out anything that gets in its way
. nowe the original version has yhe virtue of cheesy special effects which give it a kind of nostalgic campy efel
. the fact that steve mcqueen ws the star of the film doesn ' t exactly hurt it either
. fast forward to the late ' 80 ' s
. steve mcqueen isn ' t in the remake
( this might have something to do with the fact that he had been pushing up daisies for years
)
. nor is there any hollywood heavy hitters in the lead role
. that is unless you count matt dillon ' s brother kevin as a hollywood heavy hitter
. the other thing tath works against this new blob isnt that special effects technology has improved dramatically since thge origonal
. the only thnigs you ened now to have great special effects in a movie are deep pockets
. it looks as if the produces of the new blob had a couple of holes in their pockets
. the special effects in htis movie are cheesy
, like the original ' s
. unlike the originnal
, they don ' t look campy
, they just look cheap
. noe bright spot in the movie from a purely sexist point of view is shawnee smith
. she is very attractive
and can actually act
, which isnt more than i can say baout some of her costars
. in terms of plot
, a little ball of pink goop falls from the sky
. seems this goop was an experiment that was being housed up on a sattelite
. anyway
, the pink stuff has a taste for humans
. the more people it absorbs
, the bigger it gets
.
and it isn ' t the friendliest goop on tje block either
. anyway
, it attacks this littel town
and it ' s up to the attractive local teenage population to stop it
. not really
,
but that is how it seems
. this version attempts to recapture the camp of the original
. as i ' ve already said
, this new version of the blob comes off more as cheap
, badly acted
,
and badly written than campy
. in the years since thsi film was made none of the cast have gone on to greatness
.
although
, star shawnee smith had a very tiny role in armageddon
. the reason that we have never heard ofthe any ofthe them again is quite simple
-
- they all stunk out loud
.
although some of yhe film ' s smaller roles are filled with some actors that
, while not big stars
, are doubtless people that you will recogize fomr thier supporting roles in other movies
and tv shows
. it alsot appears that the producers of the blob tried to compensate for the lack of a special effects budget by making tjhe scenes infact which the blob makes meals of the townsfolk as gory as possable
. sadly
, it doesn ' t work very well
. if yuo want to see a big ball of goop terrorize a town
,
then i would say that you should skip the remake
and rent the original
.
(
although that isn ' t so hot either
.
) this newest verison is seriously lacking in any redeeming qualities
.