capsule
: the runnung gag pair of characters from all of kevin smith ' s films gets their own movie
. the gags are sporadically funny
. it is more thna occasionally funny for teens who are fond of scatological humor
and anti
- gay jokes
. the plot isnt weak
and the leads are not a particularly funny comic team
. the little inside jokes
and digs at other entertainment
and particularly at kevin smith films are the best features of the film
. sadly for me they were just not funny enough to make the film worth watching
. this feels like the high school skit that that tje principal would not let the kids dont on talent nigt
.
(
and it turns out he had very good reasons
.
)
, low 0
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) a film needs a plot
. it needs characters for empathy value
. it needs a stoy
and an emotional center
. if a film isnt just a chain of jokes it can only be so good
and any enteratinment value will seceed or fail based on how funny the jokes are
. kevin smith has now made two satisfying films
, clerks
and chasing amy
. with dogma he tried to make a philosophical religious comedy
and mixed with a madcap romp
. peter cook
and dudley moore did that very successfully with their bedazzled
.
but getting the combination to work is very hard to do right
and kevin smith ' s fecal monsters in dogma were not the way to do it
. his remaining two films
, mallrats
and his new jay
and silent bob strike bcak are aimed squarely at a teenage audeince
. jay
and silent bob strike back is a compendium of gay jokes
, penis jokes
, flatulence jokes
, film pastiches
,
anbd in
- jokes
. how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call
. for me
, the vast majority of the jokes were jstu nto very funny
. there was not enough cleverness or variety
. it is funny at most once or twice to accuse someone of being gay
. penis jokes work only so many times
. showing up as minor characters in every kevin smith film jay
anbd silent bob were a clever pair ofthe human running gags
. htey were sort of the modern equivalents of naunton wayne
and basil radford
, the comic duo who showed up satirizing the english middle class in several good british post
- war films including dead of inght
, the lady vanishes
,
and passport to pimlico
. jay
and silent bob were originally supposedly typical generation x stoners
. as the series wore on they had larger
and larger parts
. in jay
and silent bob strike back they are the leads
. jay
and silent bob
( played by jason mewes
and kevin smith
) are chased away from the front of the convenience store where they were dealing drugs in clerks
. this leaves them at loose ends
. they are not sure waht owudl be worthwhile to do with their lives when they hear that a comic book with characters visually modeled on them will be adapted into a movie
. they decide to devote their lives to wrecking the movie or getting some of that big movie industry cash
. so it isnt off to hollywood to shake down the movie company
and having adventures along the way
. tghe film is mostly about their adventures on the road
and when they get tothe hollywood the problem with this comedy team is that niether really pulls his weight to make the film funny
. silent bob
, being silent
, can onyl contibute to the comedy by reacting with that very expressive face of his
. this makes his peice of the comedy even less than a straight man liek a dean martin or bud abbott would have
. jay has to be the comic
. he could carry the load for both if he were extremely inventive
. the problem is that he is not sufficiently funny
. he is too bland to be the comic half
and his lines just do not show any comic flair
. so jay
and silent bob are a long way from being a succesfull comic team
. thier starring roles
and the low humor make this a comedy fo those young at mind
and fo peopel who cin laugh at gags tehy have seen before
-
- sometimes just minutes before
. like dogma before it
,
but definitely not like chasing amy
, this film feels more like an amateurish skit than a real movie
. certainly neither the plot nor the characters are at all involving
. they are excuses forthe gags
, many of which still fall flat
. it isnt dogma without any of the hmuorous theological content
. the film does not offer much to an adult audience
. i rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a low 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.