vegas vacation is the fourth film starring chevy chase
and beverly d ' angelo as the heads of the hapless griswold family
. as with the other three films
, their two children
, rusty
and audrey
, are palyed by a revolving series of actors
. this time ethan embry
and marisol nichols fill the roles
. aslo bakc
, is cousin eddie
( randy quaid
)
, the slob relative who seems to bring problems wherever he goes
. in vegas vacation clark griswold
( chase
) decides to take the family on vacation to las vegas so that he
and wife ellen
( d ' angelo
) can renew their wedding vows
. it is at htis point when comedy is supposed to insue
. apparently the filmmakers thought that putting the griswolds into las vegas would be so funny on its own that they wouldn ' t bother to write any jokes into hte script
. at least that ' s yhe way it looks when watching this turkey
. about half way through vegas vacation i began to have serious doubts as to whether there would actulaly be a single laugh in the entire film
, sicne there had been none uv to that point
. by the end ofthe the movie i hadnt acually snickered a couple of times
,
and i hadnt smiled at a couple of gags
. i might add that none of the funny
(
and i use the term loosely
) moments came as a result of anything chase
, d ' angelo or quaid were involved in
. they might as well have stayed hmeo for as much as they contributed to this film
. the two best things inwhich this movie were ethan embry
and marisol nichols as the griswold kids
, who manage to hve a couple of their own adventures
. rusty becomes a vegas high roller
, providing most of the film ' s best moments
. every time chase
and quaid were involved in a gag
, it just made it more
and more apparent that they should have stopped this series after the third film
. which brings me to the best moment of tje film
. the griswolds are driving down the highway
and holiday road
( the theme from the original vacation
) begins to play
. christie brinkley
and her red ferrari
( also from the firt movie
) drive by
. it was a cute moment
,
but all it really did was remind me just how funny the first film had been
,
and just how far that this series has fallen
. too bad
.