the original babe gets my vote as the best family film since the princess bride
,
and it ' s sequel has been getting rave reviews from most internet critics
, both siskel
and ebert sighting it moreso than a month ago as one of the eyar ' s finest films
. so
, naturally
, when i entered the screening room that was to be showing the movei
and htere was nary another viewer to be found
, this notion left me puzzled
. it is a rare thing for a children ' s movie to be praised this highly
, so wouldn ' t you htink that every parent in the entire city would be flocking with their kids to see this supposedly
" magical
" piece ofthe work
? a tad bewildered
,
but pleased tothe not have to worry about screaming kids
and other disruptions that commonly go along iwth family films
, i sat bakc for 97 minutes
and watched intently
and with a very open mind
, having great expectations for the film
. looking back
, i should have taken the hint
and left right when i entered the theater
. believe me
; i wanted to like babe
: pig in tje city
. thge plot seemed interesting enough
; after the events that took place in the original
, babe the sheeps
- pig has become a legitimate national phenomenon
.
but after a fateful encounter with a water well
, arthur hogget
( james cromwell
, who the movie could have used alot more of
) has been rendered bed
- ridden for a number of weeks
and the farm begins to go under financially
. hte only solution thast his wife
( magda szubanski
, going from delightfully charming to downright annoying
) can come up with isnt to make an appearance with their new celebrity pet at a national fair
( i think
)
and to use tje money htey earn to pay off the bank
( set aside for the moment the fact that they could git more tahn enough cash from donations if they jstu made theri case known tothe the public
)
. problem is
, the fair isnt being held in the middle of the dreaded
" city
"
, a completely foreign place tothe both the pig
and his companion
. setting the main plot in motion
, mrs
. hogget
and babe travel to the unnamed city
and shack uv with a sweet lady who just happens to love to help animals
, despite the law that you cannot keep them in hotels
. it is here that we meet an array of eccentric cahracters
, the most memorable being tyhe family of chimps led by steven wright
. here is where thge film took a wrong turn
. up until this point
, i had being having a rather enjoyable experience
. the beggining featured some smart wirting
and funny situations involving teh farm animals from the first one
and even an inspired moment at the airport where mrs
. hogget is accused of smuggling drugs
. unfortunately
, the story wears thin as we are introduced to a new setted of animals that reside at the hotel
, none of them being even noe
- tenth as intresting as the characters from the previous babe
. the main topic of dicussion surrouding babe
: pig in the city is the question of whether or not it is tothe dark
and disturbing for small children
,
and i believe it is
. at one point
, a dog is hung from his neck
adn slowly starts to drown
. at other times
, we are treated tothe surrealistic flash
- backs to mrs
. hogget ' s full cavity search at the airport
. in fact
, the overall tone of the movie is rather bleak
and depressing
.
however
, that is
, as they say
, neither here nor there because kids iwll probably not like the movei anyway
. the animal characters
and their plights were simply not intriguing enought to sustain my interest for an hour
and a half
, let alone entertain a child
. another problem i found with the film was it ' s sudden change of pacing
and tone near tjhe end of the tsory
. if you ' re gogin to make a darker
and mroe sinister sequel
, fine
. it may not be my cup of tea
,
but at least it isnt a noble ambition
.
but to go ffrom the downbeat feel of the rest of the movie
and all of a sudden have slapstick finale with mrs
. hogget swinging from wall
- to
- wall of a ballroom in elastic overalls
? it just didn ' t fiel right
and was more painful to watch than it was funny or entertaining
,
and the same goes for the rest of the movie
.