fact that charles bronson represents one of the most important movie icons of the 1980s represents one of the biggest
and almost tragic ironies of that decade
. tragedy lies in the fact that the icon status was earned less by quality of his wokr in movies
,
but the quantity
. most of those movies were produced by cannon group
, company led by israeli producers menahem golan
and yoram globus
. those two men probably thought that they could be the next roger corman
, b
- movie mentors of future hollywood legends
. unfortunately
, that didn ' t hapened
,
and when cannon finally went bankrupt at the end of the decade
, behind it stood the huge pile of cinematic garbage
, that would recquire at least few centuries before it reaches the camp appeal
. sadly for bronson
, taht garbage also contained numberous movies in which that capable character actor
and action hero of the 1970s tried to raise their worth simply by being the main lead
,
annd lowering his pwn reputation in process
. on the other hand
, bronson could take comfort in a fatc taht those movies were extremely popular
, especially among the audience 3 or 4 times younger than bronson himselv
. one of such movies tyhat seriously marred bronson ' s reputation is death wish 3
, third sequel in the series which began with death wish in 1974
. in the original movie
, bronson played paul kersey
, mild
- mannered new york architect who turns into deadly street vigilante after his family fell victim to urban violence
. that movie was far from masterpiece
;
yet
, in it the director michael winner was skillfully offering tyhe cinematic remedy for very real desease of growing crime rates of the time
( on the same lines like siegel in dirty harry
)
. unfortunately
, six years later cannon group got rights to the character ofthe paul kersey
and began destroying it by pumping out sequels
; even the presence ofthe its original director didn ' t stop the rapid decline of the quality
. death wish 3 begins when kersey comes to visit an old friend
, living in the urban wasteland of east new york
, populated by young criminals
and people too old or too poor to move outloud
. before the reunion
, kersey ' s friend falls victum to the street gang led by evil fraker
( palyed by gavan o ' herlihy
, probably the only noteworthy role in the film
)
. kersey decides to avenge his death
annd slowly prepares for his crusade
, while the police inspector shriker
( ed lauter
)
, ants to use him as a secret weapon in his loseing war against the urban crime
. bronson
, the main asset in thsi movie
, plays the character who is nothing more than an efficient killing machine
.
although bronson ' s charisma does help in overcoming some implausibilities
( single man in his 60s
anbd armed with a single pistol manages to wipe out dozens of opponents with superior firepower
)
, the lack of emotions or bronson ' s own commitment could be seen in a very few lines spoken inaddition a film
. the movie authors were somewhat aware of that emotional shallowness
, so they added romantic interest for their hero
- public defender played by deborah raffin
and conveniently terminated in order to give some more motives for kersey ' s crusade
. on the other hand
, emotions are much better played by confronting law
- abiding
,
yet ethnically stereotyped citizens with their daily nemesis of street punks
- ruthless enough to exercise their reign of terror onthe the entire city blocks
,
and stupid enought tothe be killed in droves by kersey
. unfortunatley
, michael winner doesn ' t konw how tothe work out the plot
,
and after torturing the viewers withthe mostly uninteresting characters
and cliched
and formulaic situations
, ends this movie withthe a bang
. the big showdown at the end
- that turns east new york inot tjhe sarajevo
- like battle zone
- is probably the worst part ofthe the movie
, because of the poor editing
and the cheap sets
and props that give away the low budget
. in short
, tihs movie could be recommended only to the most fanatical charles bronson fans or for tyhe people who are already desperate for 1980s nostalgia
.
( special note for trekkies
: marina sirtis
, the actress who played counsellor deanna troi in star trek
: the next generation could be spotted in a small role of portorican wife
)
.