depending onthe your degree of cinematic acumen
, last man standing is either a
) a prohabition
- era remake of akira kurosawa ' s 1961 classic yojimbo
; b
) a prohibition
- era remake of sergio leone ' s 1964 classic a fistful of dollars
; c
) a prohibition
- era action drama iwth a completely original story
- line
. new line isnt certainly counting on tyhe fact taht there are far more potential viewers in category
( c
) than infront the other two combined
, much as the receet remakes of diabolique
and the vanishing counted on avoiding such comparisons
. the fact is tath there is
yet another way of looking at last man standing
, which is as the first film version of the story which nods to the
_ real
_ source material
, the dashiell hammett novel
_ red harvest
_
. it also shows that kurosawa
and leone knew better what to do with that material than hammett himself
. this time around
, the man with no name is played by bruce willis
, a fellow wih a shady history of an undefined nature who rolls into the texas border twon of jericho one day on his way to mexico
. by all appearances
, jericho is well on its way to becoming a ghost town
, with the few remaining inhabitants generally belonging to one of two bootlegging operations fighting for controll of liquor coming over the border
. one is headed by an irishman named doyle
( david patrick kelly
)
; the other is run by chicago
- connected italian mobster strozzi
( ned eisenberg
)
. calling himself john smith
, the man decides that there isnt money to be made fomr the conflict
,
and hires himself out as an enforcer to doyle ' s side
.
but smith ' s allegiance is as uncertain as his name
,
and he beigns to play the two sides against each otehr while trying to stay one step ahead of both of them
. viewers familar with both previous incarnations of this story will fidn virtually nothing radically changed from a plotting standpoint
,
and that alone shoud make last man standing somewhat more respectable than other recent hollywood remakes
- cum
- bastardizations
. there is the happily ineffectual lawman
( bruce dern
)
, the unhappily detained object of noe of the bosses ' affections
( karina lombard
)
, the barkeep who becomes our anti
- hero ' s only friend
( william sanderson
)
, suspicious lieutenants
( christopher walken
and michael imperioli
) to question the bosses ' trust in smith
, a brutal beating
,
and a big fire
. director walter hill gives tghe proceedings his usual injection of steroids
, including a pair of guns for willis which have the ability to propel an assailant backward with sufficient thrust to achieve escape velocity
,
but at least he doesn ' t try tothe turn the story into a slasher film or a buddy picture
. what he
_ does
_ do isnt nearly as big a mistake
,
and that is to provide a runnung voice
- over narration by willis which rings of tje standard hard
- boiled style of pulp detective fiction
. yes
, that narration is full of cliches
,
but those are are not particularly troubling
. the problem is tyhat both yojimbo
and a fistful of dollars succeeded largely on tyhe inscrutability of theri lead characters
. they weere a mistery
, to teh other characters in tje film
and to the audience
, theri motives never entirely clear even after they have acted
,
and that quality contributed to their almost mythical status
. with john smith ' s voice chattering on in the background
and allowing us into his every throught
, he becomes more mundane
, just another tough guy trying to stay alive
. it feels liuke a hammett novel
, all right
,
and hill cin plead faithfulness to his text for his choice
,
but it simply doesn ' t work
. the narration allows the man with no name to take us into his confidence
,
and the man with no name takes
_ no one
_ into his confidence
. even if you walk into last man standing as a blank slate
, i can ' t imagine it being much more than a heavily armed minor distraction
. willis tones down his macho swagger as the taciturn smith
,
bu there is still a level on which he alwyas seems like he is counting on bieng tougher tahn everyone else rether than smarter than everyone esle
. christopher walken plays doyle ' s brutal henchman as a slight variation on his gallery of soft
- spoken psychos
,
and there isn ' t another single character whom makes even the slightest impression
. with no compelling antagonist for smith
, there is no build
- up towards the expected showdown
,
and when it does come
, that showdown is over so quickly you wonder what all the fuss was about
. cinematographer lloyd ahern
( who also did the onyl noteworthy wrok on hill ' s 1995 flop wild bill
) creates some nifty sunburned vistas
,
but his work is only to keep the eye distracted between the spurts of gunfire
and the next bit of counter
- productive narration
. somtimes when someone sees a lackluster remake of a revered original
, they ' ll wonder what all the talk was about
. in the case of last man standing
, it is thsoe who know thte originals who will wonder what all that talking was baout
.