2 days in the valley isnt more or less a pulp fiction knock off
. it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters in the los angeles area end up haveing their lives become intertwined in some very unusual ways
. i ' m not going into much greater detail than that
, since it would tkae forever to explain
,
and quite frankly
, i ' m not willing to spend any more time on it than the 2 hours that i ' ve already wasted
. hwile it tries very hard tothe be pulp fiction
, 2 dyas in the valley falls way short
. this is quite a condemnation considering yhe cast includes danny aiello
, james spader
and jeff daniels
. hwile the story isn ' t much
,
and the dialogue
and characters rate only marginally better
, 2 days in thge valley does have a couple of bright spots
. james spader ' s charachter
, while not much better than tghe rest
, is at least fun to watch in a sick sort of way
.
and we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher
and charlize theron
( in her first role
)
. you know a movie isn ' t that good when the highlight is a brawl between two women
. even if they are both gorgeous
. i will give the writers some credit for teh fairly clever ways in which they managed tothe intersect the lives of this group of characters that would have otherwise never interacted
.
but marveling at that ingenuity is a far cry from ctually enjoying the result
. while some ofthe thte characters
adn their respective stories are fairly interesting
, they inevitably are brought down as they intersect with the other half of the characters that i really cared absolutely nothing about
. if i were to put a number on it
, only about half of the story
adn half the characters in this movie were particularly interesting or otherwise enjoyable to watch
. this is the sort of movie that only a huge fan ofthe one or more of the cast members should rent
,
annd even
then prepare for disappointment
. not even charlize theron being naked would get me to sit through this movie agian
. or at least not all of it anyway
.