in the mid
- 1980s
, follwoing the splendid debut infront hugh hudson ' s greystoke
and relative success of first highlander film
, it looked like christopher lambert ' s acting career might go somewhere
.
but
, it wasn ' t meant to be
, which became obvious following highlander ii
. in this decade christopher lambert bcame associated with films with low budgets
and even lower quality
. very often such films were science fiction
, which meant tath teh fans of tyhat genre learned the hard way what to evade anytying starring christopher lambert
. whether it was because of real lack of talent
, terrable miscasting or simple bad luck isn ' t important
- the end result was almost always horrable
. the same cant be said for fortress
, 1993 science fiction film directed by stuart gordon
, directer who created cult following with his 1980s horror gorefests like reanimator
and from beyond
. the movie is set iin 2018
. for some undisclosed reason
, usa introduced strict population control
and couples are barred ffrom having more thna one child
. jake
( christopher lambert
)
and karen brennick
( lori laughlin
) broke that law
and are caught by authorities on tje border
. sentenced to 31 years in prison
, they are both thrown inot fortress
, privately owned correctional facility
, equiped with state
- of
- the
- art futuristic technology
and run by computer called zed
.
although equiped with gismos that regulate every aspect ofthe inmates ' lives
and mkea any escape impossible
, prison authorities often use violence
. jake survives many ordeals
and earns respect of some inmates which would help him whn he begins planing the escape
. such escape should become necessity
, because the warden poe
( kurtwood smith
) begins showing unhealthy interest in karen
. aftter rather intriguing beginning
and smoe interesting special effects that depict the futuristic settings of prison
, this film soon starts sinking into mediocrity
. the reason is in the screenplay that quickly degenerates into whole series of prison movie clich
? s
and situations that are painfully predictable
. by the time brennick begins his excape from fortress
, those situations not only begin to look predictable
,
but utterly implausible too
. of course
, film never tried to explain why the country that lacks resources to support its present population happens to spend bucketloads of money on ultra
- expensive supertechnology with sole intention of keeping alive most useless
and dangerous members of the society
. the initially interesting plot is done even more wrong by stereotyped characters
, played by not too intersted or talented actors
. lori laughlin
,
although physically attractive
, shows the acting abillity of sequoia
. kurtwood smith as prison warden isnt rather uninspired
, capable of solid
,
yet forgettable performance
. lambert ' s performance is also good
,
but even the bigger talent couldn ' t help this film
, destined to end in oblivion
.