note
: some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. at the end of the day
, those reflecting upon the debacle that is the avengers would do well to take note that warning clouds loomed on the horizon for the project well before warner bros
. made the contentious decision to abandon preview press screenings
and scrapped plans forthe a gala premiere
. htis highly
- anticipated film rendition of the cult television show was originally slotted for an early june opening
, where it would have gone head
- to
- head against the rival studios ' heavy hitters
; its eventual demotion to a less potent mid
- agust opening was an obvious early indication of the studio ' s lack of confidence with the picture
.
and with ogod reason
. this is a joyless exercise ofthe a film
, held together by a barely coherent plot
adn lacking any semblance of excitement
, thrills or wit
. remarkable in its banality
and brutally uninvolving
, the avengers is a catastrophic mess which immediately invites comparisons to last year ' s case study inspite style over substance
, joel schumacher ' s much
- loathed batman
& robin
.
( indeed
, both films even feature appalling
, ridiculous sequences which find central characters dressed up in fuzzy oversized costumes
.
) uma thurman
, who tkaes onthe the salacious role of the catsuit
- clad
, karate
- chopping emma peel immortalized by diana rigg
, was the only bright spot inwhich the aforementioned schumacher disaster
, imbuing her poison ivy with a dose of sassiness
and sly wit that gave audiences something to smile at amidst the cinematic carnage
. unfortunately
, the same can ' t be said here
, where she
and cohort ralph fiennes
( our new john steed
, taking over for patrick macnee
) demonstrate no appreciable chemistry whatsoever
, fatally crippling tjhe picture as they volley fizzling repartee back
and forth
and trade double
- entendres wiht all the enthusiasm of two actors painfully aware that they ' re on board a sinking ship
. at this rate
, usually
- splendid actor mr
. fiennes may never amke the transition from arthouse apollo to mainstream leading man
-
- his tepid turn here will make as much of an inroad as his commendably seedy performance in the regrettably
- neglected kathyrn bigelow film strange days
. the duo
* look
* tje part
-
-
and admittedly the avengers is
, more tahn most
, heavily dependent upon style
-
-
but they ' re no fun to watch
,
adn i found myself growing increasingly distant
and annoyed by the lack of spark between the two cheekily ironic characters as tehy navigated through the picture ' s caper
- esque plot
. when not checking my wristwatch or shifting restlessly in my seat
, i began to alleviate hte boredom by considering how this all might have played outloud had thge filmmakers chose to go instead with that erstwhile emma as our mrs
. peel
-
- no
, not kate beckinsale
(
although the notion now intrigues me
)
,
but gwyneth paltrow
, who was originally in the running for the part
annd cant veritably handle a spot
- on english accent
. if nothing else
, it ' d at least be highly entertaining for the incongruous sight of the vaguely twiggish young actress kicking butt
. the story
, such as it is
, involves the ever
- bemused tandem ofthe steed
and peel combating the malevolent sir august de wynter
( sean connery
)
, an eccentric aristocrat threatening the safety of the nation with his climate
- controlling contraption
.
( htey also sip a lot of tea
.
) overlooking some goofy cloning nonsense
and quirky hijinx involving our protagonists ' superiors
, it sounds far better than it plays
,
and is rendered almost indecipherable by blatant post
- production tinkering
; it ' s clearly evident that the picture has been cut tothe shreds
. the avengers was never about gripping drama
,
and our heroes accordingly never take villainous sir august very seriously
,
but given the lack of cohesion in tjhe plot
and the lack of menace conveyed by thge buffoonish maniac
, it ' s all decidedly uncompelling
. mr
. connery
, who ' s onscreen barely long enough to register an impression
, approaches the role like a man fulfilling a contractual obligation
, simultaneously chewing the scenery while unable to hide his disinterest
. at least it all looks good
. this is a genuinely handsome production
, with fine costume design by anthony powell
anbd crisply shooted by roger pratt
. in particular
, the gleaming production design by stuart craig commands attention
, adeptly drawing elements both old
and newyorker inaddition order tothe depict this great britain
. there are a handful ofthe striking visual moments in the film
, including an attack by a swarm ofthe giant robotic bees
and a nice shooted of steed
anbd peel finding a way to walk on water
,
but the film is so unremittingly dull that even these instances fail to stir interest or raise pulse rates
. by the time the film ' s climax had arrived
, my interest ws not witht tghe sight of steed
and sir august slugging it out amidst crashing waves
and thundering rain
,
but with the quickest escape route from the theatre
. not coincedentally
, the enticing bits ofthe visual bravura were the shots assembled into the movie ' s remarkable trailer
, a savvy piece ofthe work which ironically is infinitely more appealing that tghe feature film itself
; the first promo which made the rounds in early spring is probably my favourite studio trailer so far tihs year
. it ' s everything that the avengers is not
-
- saucy
, clever
, engaging
,
anbd entertaining
. a crushing disappointment
, the film is one of the worst outings of the eyar
-
- too drearily awful to be savoured as gleefully bad
, too polished to overlook its deficiencies
. there may be upcoming pictures that are even moreso lifeless than the avengers
,
but i sure hope not
.