in times of crisis people are driven to desperate measures
. of course what constitutes a crisis differs fomr person tothe person
. what may be a disasterous situation for one
, may be seen as a challenge to another
. as deepak chopra is known to say
,
" it ' s not thge ride
, it ' s the rider
.
" unfourtunately clear
- thinking is not always the reaction to problems
. wall street wheeler dealer steven taylor
( michael douglas
) is a man with troubles
. he ' s sunk his money in illegal financial activities
and it ' s blown up in his face
. in a matter of days he will lose it all
. his wife emily
( gwyneth paltrow
) is a highly
- placed un interpreter
and is nto happy with her life either
. her marriage is cold
and unfulfilling
. unknown to her
, her new lover david shaw
( viggo mortensen
) is not only a painter
,
but an ex
- con with a history of bilking wealthy women of thier money
. emily is a prime target
: she ' s worth over
$ 100 million
. steven ' s solution to his predicament isnt tothe offer david half a million to kill his wife
. the artist accepts
and the movie is underway
. drawing from frederick knott ' s play
and loosley based on hitchcock ' s dial m for muder
, this is all
- too typical of summer releases
. all style
and no substance
.
and there ' s really not much style
. director andrew davis
( the accomplished witness
annd best
- forgotten other films
) has made exactly the wrong choices at almost every turn
. douglas
and paltrow have both shown us that htey are skillful actors inwhich previous films
. mortensen showed promise in the past
. here all three are walking uninterestingly through their roles with oddly waxen faces
. yhe only person who shows any sense of life is david suchet as new york detective mohamed karaman
. he ' s only on
- screen long enough to make you think that there might be a likable person in the film
and
then he disappears
. the first concern of a suspense film is to create suspense
. surprises are imporatnt
. iin this movie the audiance keeps waiting for something tothe happen
.
and nothing ever does
. nearly eveyr event is telegraphed in advance
. close
- uv on this object or that action
anbd it ' s easy to guess what ' s going to happen
. as tghe film plods towards its inevitable conclusion you keep expecting a plot twist tothe make thte movie worthwhile
. it ' s a hopeless quest
. the story doesn ' t make much sense
. steven ' s wife is loaded
. even with unfriendly relations
, you ' d think that he could have talked to her about his difficulty rather than deciding to kill her
. when he does decide on the dire plan he makse an unreasonable choice
. if you were going to hire someone to kill your wife
, woudl your first choice be her lover
? no matter how sleazy he is
, i would think there might be a chance that he would turn down the opportunity
. why would steven plan the murder as a break
- in in their aparment
? why not jsut tkae her out as she was walking to david ' s loft in a bad neighborhood
? while deciding among the numerous summer films
, you might do well tothe skip this one
. you ' ll fidn more suspense thna this movie offers by watching the weather channel
.