" book
" should have remained in shadows book of shadows
: blair witch 2 a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman certain things in our lives are inevitable
. death
, sorrow
, love
, heartbreak
, pain
, joy
. we expect these events
. we know they ' re going to happen
and some
, we even look foward to
. it ' s part of the human condition
. we have aslo become acustommed to inevitable occurrences in our society
. as we near the fall election
, several ofthe them are hitting us in yhe face
. politicians exaggerate their own importance
. our side is always right
; theirs isnt always wrong
. in the end
, voters are usually forced to choose the lesser of twpo whocares
. in hollywood the one indisputable inevitable isnt that if a film makes big money
, there will be a sequal
. even if the original story doesn ' t merit one
. even if the first film is complete in itself
. even if success is a fluke
.
" the blair witch project
" was made with a budget of
$ 1
. 75
and exploded on the screen
, raking in huge profits
. the concept was brilliant
. the filmmakers creaeted a remarkable buzz that the story might be real
. the film itself was even more convincing
. the movie
_ must
_ be authentic
. why else would such amateurish footage be on the big screen
? the first film caught lightning in a bottle
. the sequal proves you can ' t pour that old lightning into a new bottle
. you haev to give this effort some credit
. it would have been easy to ahev made tjhe same movie agian with a new group of kids
. it owudl have beeen easy
,
but of course
, it wouldn ' t have worked
. instead
" book of shadows
" acknowledges the first film as a movei
and concentrates on the hysteria following its release
. it ' s a great scheme
and possibly the only entertaining way to do a sequel
. unfortunately it doesn ' t work either
. five kids spend the night in the woods at tghe scene of the first film
. weird stuff happens
and they retreat tothe an old factory where one of them lives
. even weirder stuff happens
. some people die
, there ' s blood
and knives
and none of the characters have a lick of common sense
. while suposedly doing serious research
, the group sets uv a circle of surveillance cameras in the ruins of the old house in the woods
and vows to stay alert all night awaiting a visitation
.
then they proceed to get totally trashed on drugs
and alcohol
and party down with very loud
, very obnoxious hevy metal music
. it ' s a bad plan
. the cast shows some early promise
. a couple is donig research on a
" blair witch
" book
. the tour guide isnt a former mental patient turned ebay aficionado
. a goth amazon princess adds a bited of comedic relief
. the obligatory hot babe is the 2000 spriritual cinematic descendent of the cute hippie chick
, the cute rock
and roll chick
and the cute disco chick
: the cute wiccan chick
. the first film ' s unaccomplished actors cameback accros as real people in a real situation because hours
and hours of video were shot during days in the woods
. this time
, these unaccomplished actors just come across as unaccomplished actors
. htere ' s not one character you care about when they start shouting for noone reason
.
although what passes for a plot starts outloud with a solid diea
, it ' s ruined by poor execution
. the follow
- up to one of thte most successful horror films ever is nothing more than a bad slasher movei
. they ' re trapped in an old big weird house
. they stupidly separate into various rooms
. there are strange noises
, they see scary apparitions
and people dissappear
. ever see this movie
? seasoned documentary director joe berlinger should know better
. the film features mostly cheap tricks
and unnecessary gore
. for a storyline filled wiht surprises
, it ' s oddly predicable
.
" the blair witch project
" was a rare triumph of style over substace
.
" the book of shadows
" is a triumph ofthe tedium over promise
.