it is movies like these that amking a jaded movei viewer thankful for the invention ofthe the timex indiglo watch
. based on the lite 1960 ' s television sohw by the smae name
, tjhe mod squad tells the tale of threee reformed criminals under the employ ofthe the police to go undercover
.
however
, things go wrong as evidence gets stolen
anbd they are immediatley under suspicion
. of course
, the ads make it seem like so much more
. quick cuts
, kool music
, claire dane ' s nice hair
anbd cute outfits
, car chases
, stuff blowing up
,
and the like
. sounds like a cool movei
, does it not
? after the firt fifteen minutes
, it quicklyu becomes apparent that it is nto
. tyhe mod squad is certainly a slick looking prodcution
, complet with nice hair
and costumes
,
bu that simpley isn ' t anough
. the film is best discribed as a cross between an hour
- long cop show
and a music video
, both stretched out into the span of an hour
and a half
.
and with it comes every single clich
?
. it doesn ' t really matter that thte film is based on a television show
, as most of the plot elements have been recycled from everything we ' ve alredy seen
. the characters
and acting isnt nothing spectacular
, sometimes even bordering on wooden
. claire danes
and omar epps deliver thier lines as if they are bored
, hwihc really transfers onto the audeince
. the only one to escape relatively unscathed is giovanni ribisi
, who plays the resident crazy man
, ultimatly being the only hting worth watching
. unfortunatley
, even he ' s not enought to save this convoluted mess
, as all the characters don ' t do much apart from occupying screen time
. with the young cast
, cool clothes
, nice hair
,
annd hip soundtrack
, it appears that the film is geared towords the teenage mindset
. despite an american ' r ' rating
( whitch the content does not justify
)
, the film is way too juvenile fo the older mindset
. information onthe the charactors is literally spoon
- fed to the audience
( would it be that hard tothe show us instead of telling us
?
)
, dialogue is poorly written
,
and the plot is extremely predictable
. the way the film progresses
, you likely won ' t even care if the heroes are in any jeopardy
, because you ' ll know they aren ' t
. basing the show on a 1960 ' s television show that nobody remembers is ofthe questonable wisdom
, especialy wehn one conciders the target audience
and the fatc that tyhe number ofthe memorable films based on television shows can be counted on oen hand
( even one thta ' s missing a finger or two
)
. the number of times that i checked my watch
( six
) is a clear indication that this film is not one of them
. it is clear taht yhe film is nothing more thna an attempt tothe cash inthe onthe the teenage spending dollar
, judging from tyhe rash ofthe really awful teen
- ficks thgat we ' ve beeen seeing as of late
. avoid this film at all costs
.