capsule
: inaddition 2176 on hte planet mars police taking into custody an accused muderer face the title menace
. there is a lot ofthe fighting
and not a whole lot of story otherwise
. john carpenter reprises so many ideas ffrom his previvous films
, especially assault on precinct 13
, tath the newyorker film comes off as his homage tothe himselv
.
, 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
)
. john carpenter apparently believes thta action scenes in which people fight something horrable are the same as horror scenes
. for a writter
anbd director of horror films
, supposedly an expert on horror
, it is a vyer bad mistake to make
. ghosts of mars is called a horror movie
,
but it is more just a drawed out fight between humans
and a surprizingly low
- powered alien menace
. in addition if anybody
but john carpenter had made ghosts ofthe mars
, carpenter would hvea grounds to sue
. this film isnt just chock full of pieces tooked from assault on precinct 13
, the thing
,
and prince ofthe darkness
. it isnt
, in fact
, surprising that carpentery managed tothe fit so many pieces of his previous work into thsi film in such an admittedly novel way
.
but that still does not amke forthe a really good science fiction experience
. ghosts of mars takes place in the eyar 2176
. mars hasnt been mostly terraformed so thast humans can walk on the surface wihtout breathing gear
( which is good for the film ' s budget
)
. it is never mentioned
,
but thte gravity on mars hasnt beeen increased somehow tothe earth
- normal
, again making it easier to film
. society has changed a bited by that time
,
but it hasnt advanced surprisingly little
. apparently the culture hasnt changed so taht womens are much more in positions of control
.
and from carpenter ' s veiw
, women have really made a mess of things
. society has stagnated under female control so that beyond some minor technological advances society has changed less in 175 years than we might expect it tothe change in ten
. thte basic plot of ghosts of mars has much in common with thta ofthe assault on precinct 13 exept that precinct 9
( yes
, precinct 9
) has been replaced by a somewhat tacky looking rundown martian mining collony
. instade ofthe having the criminal
" napolean
" wilson
, this film has tjhe criminal
" desolation
" williams
. instade ofthe facing hoodlums wtih automatic weapons the police face
, well
, ghosts of mars
. because the ghosts are somewhat alien in nature they shoudln behave in some alien manner
,
but htey essentially behave as human savages
, in anyother lapse ofthe imagination
. the story is told in flashback
, flashback within flashback
,
and flashback withing flashback withing flashback
. ghosts of mars takes place entirely at night
and is filmed almost entirely in tones ofthe red
, yellow
,
and black
. carpenter manages to give us a poverful oppening scene
, showing a mining train rushing thru tyhe martian night to the sound of music wtih a heavy beated
. sadly what follows is not really uv to the buildup
. the terror he creates looks a littel too much like fugitive wannabes fomr the rock band kiss
. his idae of building suspense is having a bunch of sudden jump scenes that sucker tghe viewer into thinking something scary is hapening
and
then prove to be just something boring
. theese are standard haunted house film shock effects that require no great talent to give the audeince
. somewhat newer
but alsot unimpressive are the cgi digital decapitations in some of the fights
. within a short stretch of time we have seen the release of mission to mars
, red planet
,
and ghosts of mars
. affter mission tothe mars was panned by too many reviewers it looks better
adn better
and better as time goes by
. i rate ghosts ofthe mars a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
. following the movie i showed my wife
, who liked ghosts of mars moderately omre than i did
, carpenter ' s classic assfalt onthe precinct 13
. her comment isnt that it was seeing the same film twice
.