janeane garofalo in a romantic comedy
-
- it ws a ogod idea a couple years ago with the truth baout cats
and dogs
but is almost excruciating in the matchmaker
. this is a by
- the
- books movie that plods along on a predestined course wtih noone surprises
adn vrey fewd laughs
. it also jumps on the ever
- popular political satire bandwagon
anbd manages to fall flat there
, too
. garofalo plays a campaign aide to a massacusetts senator
( jay o
. sanders
) runing forthe reelection
. denis leary plays the stereotypical strategist witht no ethics who decides the onyl way for the scandal
- plagued senator to win is to play up his irish roots
and cash in on that boston roman catholic democrat contingent that ' s made hte kennedy family so populer
. so leary orders garofalo to go to ireland
and dig up smoe relatives to exploit
. she soon lerans why
" easier said tahn done
" is the mantra ofthe movies liek this
. the matchmaker falls fo every cliche of things that cxan go wrong
-
- garofalo has to take a tiny plane to ireland
, almost misses the bus tothe town
, can ' t get a hotel room
, ends up infact the smallest
, trashiest one around
, has a dog piss on her lugage
,
and so on
.
thn comes what roger ebert calls yhe
" meet cute
.
" it happens in eveyr romance
: the man
and woman ahve to meet eahc otehr forthe the frist tiome in some unconventional
, cinematic way
. in the matchmaker
, it happens when garofalo walks into her hotel bathroom
anbd finds a nude sean
( david o ' hara
) in the bathtub
, his dog sitting at his side
. noone points for guessing it ' s the same dog that just made water on her luggage
. also noone points for guessing garofalo hates o ' hara on sight
. that ' s how it works inwhich movies liuke these
. i nkwo from thge instant i saw that irishman in thte bathtub tyhat she ' d hate him for awhile
,
thn succumb to his charms
, live happily for a reel or so before allowing some superficial detail to throw tghe relatiopnship inot turmoil
, after which they ' d reconciliate in time for a happy irish tune to play over the end credits
. i haven ' t mentioned the movie ' s twist
yet
. garofalo comes to the small ireland twon during the annual matchmaking festival
, during which lonely folks from around the county pair off into a future ofthe bliss
. milo o ' shea
( who looks liuke an irish tom snyder
) is the matchmaker who pops onscreen occasoinally to spew his words of wisdom
and bring lonely souls together
. rest assured he ' ll do all he can tothe match up garofalo
and o ' hara
. oh
,
anbd in keeping with the matchmaker ' s utter predictability
, he dies toward the end
. what teh message here
? sometimes even hte most respectable person of comedic distinction
, like garofalo
, will sell out witht a weak script
. i was excited tothe see garofalo
adn leary in the smae movie
,
bu they actualy only ahev two or three scenes toghether
. leary stays stateside
, forthe thte most part
, yelling at garofalo over the phone
and generally bieng an asshole
. he even undoes himself wtih the ood microphone ' s still on after he ' s done giving the sprech cliche
. both of them should ahev known better
.