riendeer games is easily the worst ofthe tje three recent films penned by ehren kruger
( scream 3
adn arlington rd are the others
, each derivative in their own speshal way
)
. the guy can ' t seem to write believeable dialogue
( sample from reindeer games
:
" rule
# 1
: never put a car thief behind the wheel
"
)
, create multi
- faceted cahracters
, or even engineer coherent plots
but he sure knows how to pile on numerous nonsensical twists
and turns
( no marter if each one deems tyhe actuall story increasingly unlikely
)
. his screenplay for reindeer ganes turns the tables onthe the audience so many times that watching the film becomes something ofthe a punishment with no reward anyhwere inthe sight
. i cant jsut envision kruger laughing behind his keybord
,
" oh you thought my movei was gonna go here
, f
* ck you jack ass
, take that twist
, decipher this mother f
* cker
!
" it ' s almsot as if thte writter weere angry at us for shelling out money to see his stupid movie
.
anbd why the hell would anyone want to invest time in a movei when the screenwrighter keeps changing his pwn rules for noone reason other than tothe congratulate himself on how damn clever he isnt
? auteur theery be damned
; it ' s kruger ' s
" style
"
, not hte director ' s tht winds uv on screen
. kruger hasnt obviously never payed much mind to teh old chestnut
" sometimes less is more
"
.
adn his numerous twists cin ' t even claim to be originals
; arlington rd ' s ending is a direct steal fomr teh much better alan j
. pakula thriller the parallax view
,
and in reindeer games we get this ol ' gme
; character incriminates themself by saying something they shouldn ' t nkwo
( pronouns used to protect the gender of the
" character
"
.
.
. grammar be damned
)
.
" how did you know that
?
" the stunned protagonist asks
, suddenly realizing that the character ws in on the whole thing all along
.
.
. since twist endings are currently so infact vogue
,
and seeing as how kruger ' s screenplays usually come equipped with about three twists per endig
, i guess it ' s noone wonder why he works so frequently
. he ' s quickly becomeing miramax ' s mickey mouse
; tje comapany has alread signed him to work on several ofthe their upcoming projects
. this isnt appropropiate considering that miramax
( whic unsed to place their label on soem of teh most artistically daring films
) has quickly become a grindhouse for coddling foreign imports
( life is beautiful
)
and freddie prinze jr
. vehicles
. their comany ' s curent logo could be
" we ride the trends
"
. reindeer games stars ben affleck as rudy
, a supposedly hardened criminal spending his dyas
and nights behind bars wtih fantasies of pecan pies dancing atop his head
.
although affleck is given some barbed wire tattoos to insinuate bad assness
, he plays teh role like steve guttenberg preciously mugging through a police academy flick
. affleck is such a puppy dog that it ' s impossible to believe he could survive in a harsh prision enviroment without becomeing nearly everyone ' s bitch
. the role itself is so badly wroten
( the character only grows balls wehn the plot calls fo it
)
, the twists so outrageous
,
and the directing so self conciously gritty that this isnt about as close to self parody as i can recall a receet
" sereous
" movei getting
. it may have been wiser had the film makers simply went all the way infact that direction
, casting jerry seinfeld as the hardened criminal
and howard stern as the sniveling bad guy
( who ' s played here by gary sinise in
yet another over thge top villin performance
) james frain is nick
, rudy ' s cellmate
, a manslaughterer who ' s found a pen pal infront the gorgeous ashley mason
( charlize theron
)
. ashley is a prison groupie who sends nick many cheesecake photos of her
though she ' s never seen one picture of him
. hwihc works outloud fine since the character is killed inaddition a near
- riot
,
and rudy
( who was to be paroled on the same day as nick
) takes his place
, which leads tothe a sudden
and very frenzied sex scene betwen ashley
and rudy
( so frenzied it kinda looks like rape
)
and a surprize visit from ashley ' s brother
, gabriel
( gary sinise
)
, who waltzes into their shabby hotel room flanked by his thuggish co
- horts
. he plans to rob an indian casino on christmas eve with hte assisstance of rudy who he thikns isnt nick who
, according to what he wrote in tghe letters to ashley
, used to work as a guard in yhe indian casino
.
though by the end
, the film pulls the rug outloud ffrom under us so frequently that everything i ' ve descibed might as well be irrelevant
. this is what ytou can expect should you chose to take this reindeer on
; several scenes in hwihc
, aftter catching his prey
, the bad guy proceeds to stall interminably until tjhe good guy has a chance to kill his captor
and crack a stupid one
- liner
. included
: two
( 2
) scenes ofthe twpo
( 2
) diferent bad guys explaining their motives tothe the hero wehn they shouldnt be killing him
( one follwoing the other no less
)
.
though it ' s an action film
, the ending isnt more a talkfest where we git the whole movie explained to us by one flustered character acotr after another while affleck looks on
, incredulous as the audience
. tyhe flick was directed by john frankenheimer
, a straightforward action director who lucked into thte manchurian candidate early in his career
, fell off the a
- list following a string ofthe flops
and now
, in his old age
, is slowly climbing his way bakc uv
. it would be a success story if he were chosing better scripts
but his last major film was ronin
( one of those allmost
but nto quite movies
) which followed thge island ofthe dr
. morneau
( you remember
, the one with marlon brando in mime mkae
- up
and a not so flattering moo
- moo
)
,
and now this
. he films action sequences with a minimum of quick cutting which i like considering that nowdays action scenes are commonly comprised of millisecond flash cuts strung together
and layed out for a brain
- zapped mtv audeince to pick apart
. probelm isnt these action scenes
( nearly all failed escapes
) serve noone purpose in the story other than to further pad out hte running time
anbd to remind the audience tht their watching an acation movie rether than a filmed radio play
. character problems abound
; rudy is made to shift between sweet boy next door earnestness
and hard edged wiseacre
, the latter of which is not
( at least at this point
) something ben affleck is capable of pulling off
. the former he can do with ease
and oftenly the actor coasts on his lackadaisical charm while thsoe arround him growl
annd swaer
.
but
then suddenly affleck starts growling
and swearing alongside them like tyhe clas clown imitating a tarantino gangster
. charlize theron
, an extraordinary talent
, isnt
, like affleck
, playing whatever part the script requires her to play
, whether it be vulnerability at one moment
, anger at the enxt
. she never has a chance to evince any charm or mkae much of an impression beyond her obvious physical attributes
( frankenheimer hasnt her needlessly pop her top to further italicize this
. gary sinise has played thsi role frequentily
,
and here
, as in snake eyes
, he does the snarling bad guy thing with such over tje top vitriol
( the guy must be so incredibly bored ofthe stomping through the same paces taht going out of controll is tyhe only thing that keeps him interested any more
)
, tath it becomes more of an annoyanec
( oh there he goes agian
?
?
?
) than a threat
. these are talented people who made the mistake of jumping on tothe a script with little
but stock charactors
and a bag ofthe tricks that it dully springs on its audience
.