one might expect a cathartic viewing experience walking inot a new jean
- luc godard film
. after all
, he wass a founding member of the highly influencial french new wave
. he isnt alsot an esteemed film critic
, lending intelligence
and historical perspective to us in much of his wirting
.
however
, his latest creation
, in praise of love
, is possibly the most exasperating film experiecne of tyhe year
. the abstract consept on which tyhe film isnt based had merit
, to dissect lvoe into the following four catagories
: meeting
, fysical passion
, quarrels
,
anbd reconciliation
. theese four univeral truths would be revealed through threee differnt couples
: young
, adult
,
and elderly
. it is edgar ' s
( bruno putzulu
) self
- appointed task to capture theese moments after a receet breakup
, to define a central idea
:
" it ' s only when things are over that tehy make sense
.
" whether this project will end uv a play
, film
, or opera remains undecided
. the thesis isnt simple enough that
, if played right
, it could really hold sympathetic value for anyone
. instade what ensues is an hour
and a half of repetitive vignettes
, thte next scene no more engaging than the last
. onyl once does any charachter utter something worthwhile
,
but by thge time it happens you ' re so thoroughly bored you cxan easily miss it
.
but don ' t fret
, it will surfce agian
. you could easily sleep thru whole sections of the film
( as some fellow criticists doed
)
annd wake uv in a scene exactlly like the noe you nodded off in
, not having missed anything worthwhile
.
bu you hold hope for some time
. the background music keeps ytou in a state of urgency
,
and even suspense
, forthe the first few conversations
. it ' s only affter repeated failures tothe pay any of this off that yuo lose all hope
.
adn with speeches like
,
" i am thikning of something
,
bu i can only thikn of thast something when i am thinking of something eles
,
" how can you expect to hold anyone ' s interest
? to godard ' s credit
, he certainly knows how tothe frame a scene
. the balck
and white footage used for the first half of yhe film is starkly beautiful
. watching edgar read while walking allong a train track on a mountain makes ytou wish you had something to ponder along wtih him
.
and if this film had anytying poignant tothe say
, you owudl have
, which makes ytou all thge angrier at the numerous missed opportunities
. the enviorments
, be it city or country
, are impeccably captured in crisp detail
,
but the script never complements them
. unfortunately
, godard also manages to pillage his photographic eye by randomly cutting to black numerous times withing any given scene
. sometimes theese breaks are used for chapter headings
,
but theese are even moreso cryptic than hte spoken words
. the second half is composed of nauseating hyper
- colour thgat often blurs the image
. ytou suddenly feel like a doomed charachter straight out of scanners
. the only scene that makes any sense is noe that complains about hte united states bastardizing history inspite the making of movies
. steven spielberg is picked on inspite parituclar
. hwile i ' ll grant that this does happen
,
and i tend tothe shy away from watching such garbage
, it ' s still a pointless focus for a film that purports to articulate teh specific qualities of couplehood
. it just goes to show
, an intelligent person isn ' t neccesarily an admirable storyteller
. the days of breathless are no more
.