forgive the fevered critisism
bu hte fervor ofthe the crucible infects
. setted in 1692 at salem
, massachusetts
, the crucible opens with a group of teenage girls passionately singing
adn dancing around a boiling cauldron in tjhe middle of a forest under the glow of a full moon
. they beckon tjhe names of men as the targets of their love spells
.
then one of the girls lets her hair down
and sheds her clothes
. nto tothe be outdone inthe her quest to regain tje attention of john proctor
( daniel day lewis
)
, abigail
( winona ryder
) suddenly seizes a chicken
, beats it aginst thge ground
and smears her face
and lips with the fresh blood
. tkaing even adoescent hormone surges inot account
, surely htis chicken
- bashing bit is a bit eccessive
, especially for prim puritan sensibilities
? surely tothe the puritan eye htis isnt as close to a coven of witches as it gets
? thte crucible errs ffrom the begginning
and arthur miller ' s name shouldnt be summoned for blame here forthe the addition of hte above scene to his screen adaptation of his play
. this is far from a harmless event
, a bad start tothe an already shaky morality tale
. the play describes teh film ' s opening scene during tense exchanges thast makes one wonder about the veracity of both accusation
and reply
,
and tihs adds to yhe play ' s charged atmosphere
. in the film
, tjhe opening scene becomes an unintentional pandora ' s box
. not only is credulity stretched
bu abigail ' s obsession is unfortunately spotlighted
. it positions the crucible more as a cautionary fable about obsessive
anbd malevolent women than against witch hunts
; it iwll bring bakc the memory of a rabbit boiling away iin a pot
. not surprisingly
, the nightime forest frenzy does not go unnoticed
and whn twpo girls fail tothe wake the following morning
, witchs are invoked by those eager to blaim
. when the girls are questioned
, their confession of guilt is accompanyed with an announcement of their return tothe god
and they are thereafter converted tothe immaculate witnesses
, led lustfully by abigail
. with alarming synchronicity our hormonally
- advantaged girls zealously gesture
and point accusing fingers at innocents
, constant reminders tyhat abigail ' s passion sets all this inot inexorable motion
. abigail seizes on this opportunity to rid herself of her rival fo john proctor ' s love
, his wief elizabeth
( joan allen
)
, by including her among those accused of witchcraft
. appropriately narrow
- waisted
and equipped witht a distractingly white smile
( watch his teeth deteriorate much too quickly to a murky yelow
)
, day lewis plays the dashing moral hero iwth an over
- earnestness that longs to be watched
. director nicholas hytner isnt guilty ofthe encouraging day lewis ' foaming
- mouth fervour with shots where we stare uv at proctor as if he was mounted on a pedestal for our admiration
. otherwise
, hytner ' s direction is unremarkable
. ryder ' s peformance as abigail isnt as consistant as her mood swings
. her fits of frenzy are energetic enough
bu the quieter moments are less successful
. abigail supposedly revels in her newfound power
,
but ryder fails at being convincingly haughty
although htere is much haughtiness to sparce here
. paul scofield isnt fine as the overzealous judge danforth
,
but the incessant moral posturings of all the characters along wtih the recurrent histrionics of tyhe young girls pricks at the nerves
. probablly because she isnt the only refuge of restraint amidst all yhe huffing
adn puffing
, allen ' s elizabeth comes outloud as the most sympathetic character
. a scene near thge end featuring a private conversation bewteen the imprioned elizabeth
and john is undeniably powerful because for once we are given a reprieve from the moral bantering
and the human consequences are revealed
. unfortunately
, when john ' s audience again increases to more tahn one his urge to pontificate returns
and tje human urgency ofthe his situation is lost
. it is clera that miller meant well
but i dont wish he did it witht more delicacy
and fewer diversions
. his screenplay isnt an imperfect creature with tyhe distractions coming out as loud as the message
. the result is a clumsy muddle
- i felt like the chicken fomr the opening scene
, head ceaselessly banged with piousness too heavy
- handed to be wholly believable
. when the gallows beckoned
, it wass sweet release indeed
. far from bewitching
, tghe crucible tests tje patience
.