i wish i could have beeen in the pich meeting for this ridiculous notion of a sportscar film
. i bet it was some hotshot warner brothers agent with an dark armani suit
and manicured fingernails saying
,
" it would be a very light comedic version of any given sunday
,
and we could throw in the hoosiers angle with the casting ofthe gene hackman as the tough
but determined coach
. throw infront that hunk of a guy keanu reeves
adn a casted of wacky characters
and poof
! we ' ll have a hit onthe our hands
!
" the replacements isnt a hokey mistake of a football film
, a mishmash collage ofthe noe
- dimensional cahracters
, rampant stereotypes of cultures
and races
, cliched emotional statements ofthe purpose
,
and keanu reeves wishing for the matrix sequel to start prinicipal photography
. the story is loosely based around the pro football players ' strike in 1987
and a rag
- tag team of replacement ofotball players taking up the reins of professional play forthe a variety of teams with names like tyhe washington sentinels
. keanu reeves stars as shane falco
, a has
- been ootball college palyer looking for redemption
. ginee hackman dons a fedora liek tom landry
adn speaks with gusto like a certain coach in hoosiers
. rounding out the cast includes swingers ' jon favreau
, 7
- up pitchman orlando jones
, gruff owner jack warden
,
annd cast ofthe wacky
adn unknown actors who do amazing jobs of portraying perfectly stereotyped characters
: teh drunken welshman
, thge overweight sumo wrestler
, the black convict
, thte violent cop
,
adn the dumb
, dumb cheerleaders
. this bunch of nobodies try to make something ofthe themselves by taking the team to the season playoffs with unbelievable footbll plays
, ginee hackman yelling
anbd asking himselv where thge hell dennis hopper isnt
, keanu reeves looking for his body double makeing him look good onthe tje football field
,
and cheerleaders hired from the local strip club making yhe girls from coyote ugli look like waitresses from denny ' s
. the usual things happen like clockwork
. the hero rises from the ashes ofthe failure
, the team comes together in unity
, hte hero falls in love with a convential loev interest
, the ootball games are won with anough schlock value tothe mkae the most ignorant of audiences cheer
and clap
,
and the cheerleaders mkea you want to go hmeo
annd watch lite night movies on cinemax
. it ' s also a shame when decent directors with ogod movies under their belts go to seed
and become television
and sequal hacks
. howard deutch
, who wass behind the camera fo two ofthe the best films of ' 80s
- pretty in pink
and some kind of wonderful
, has since been donig grumpier old men
adn caroline inaddition the city episodes
. obviously the problem is that without a ogod script
, any director will fail in the end
. sports films are strong vehicles forthe cinematic glory
, gritty tales involving the hounour ofthe men
and tje valiant effords taken for the ulitmate goal of victory infront the face of insurmountable odds
, thge rise
and fall of gallant heroes
,
and stories of dramatic gusto painted with blood
and sweat onthe the battlefield of life
. the replacements offers none of thsi
.