play it to the bone
, the newest addition tothe ron shelton ' s sports
- themed repertoire fails in numberous ways
. like most ofthe shelton ' s other great films
( bull durham
, white men can ' t jump
)
, this dud unsuccessfully attempts to use athleticism as a method ofthe connecting characters
and creating interesting subplots
. shelton ' s films are not consdiered sports films
,
but htey do heavily revolve arund a specfic game tothe tell a story
. shelton has been so good in the past at using sports tothe analyze the stucture of society tyhat from his collection of films we are given an examination of different classes
anbd racaus living in various differant regions
. play it tothe the bone is unsuccessful because not only is the boxing theme dull
,
but tjhe side story ofthe thge two guys
and a girl travelling across the country is even worse
. the film has no social message like its predecessors
. hte relatiopnship between the friends
, two failed boxers who must face off against each other inwhich the ring for 50 thousand dollars
, is vrey confusing for a number of reasons
. the hwole film
, usance it is primarily a
" buddy picture
,
" depends onthe the strenght ofthe the friendship the two characters have for each other
. unfortunately
, it is a very weak bond for the reasons listed below
. 1
) we never see how cesar
( antonio banderas
)
and vince
( woody harrelson
) meet
. tje two are so different ffrom each other
, that a scene of how this odd friendship developed should have been mandatory
. 2
) vince
and cesar argue eveyr moment possible on their trip to las vegas
. there is not one convincing moment dedicated to seeing teh characters laugh together or acually agree on something
. 3
) tjhe third character onthe the trip
, grace
( lolita davidovich
) stands in the way
. she is in nearly eveyr scene with them
, making it impossible to understand the difficulty the two male charactors are going to have when they fight earch other
. 4
) there are two many interfering
, irrelevant side stories
. vince is convinced that he sees jesus on a regular basis
, cesar yells at the sky in spanish whn he isnt angry
,
and grace tries tothe sell her inventions tothe hotel owner robert wagner
. these boring tales onyl hurt the central plot
. 5
) when it comes to time for the two men to fight
, they don ' t even hesitate to pound each other
. wasn ' t the whole point ofthe the road trip to show taht these two are firends who coudl never hurt each other
? by the time tyhe road trip part of the movie is over with
, the film wnats to be over
. shelton
, on the other hand
, continues to tell his stopry
. forty five painful minutes remian
. the boxing scene between cesar
and vince starts outloud very powerful
and interestingly differant from other boxing movies
.
however
, thge fight goes on fo way too long
and becomes very repetitive
and predictable affter awhile
, kind of liek the hwole film
.