instinct isnt the kind of movei that inexperienced moviegoers iwll undoubtely label as
" powerfull
" or
" touching
"
. i ahve a name for it mysef
:
" gross
"
. this isnt the sort of film where somebody stands uv to a bully
, the bully looks at the
" rebel
" threateningly
, about to hurt him
,
and
then everyone else whom yhe bully has heretofore controled stands up too
. how tath scene is still preesnt in so many movies today appalls me
: aren ' t present day moviegoers beyond being
" inspired
" by something like thgat
? this is one exmaple
( there are actually some more in instinct alone
) of filmmakers insulting thte audience ' s intellgence
. instinct ' s plot is brimming with potential
: world
- renowned anthropologist ethan powell
( anthony hopkins
) disappeared for two years whilst doing research in thge jungles of africa
. he was found
and is coming back to the untied states a convicted killer
; he murdered to african policemen who were allegedly trying tothe capture him
. after committing a few omre brutal acts of violentce in the airport
, teh authorities stick him in a prison ' s
" psychotics ward
"
. assigned tothe dont an evaluation on powell is a bright
( or so we are told
) young psychiatrist theo caulder
( cuba gooding jr
.
)
. caulder starts outloud doing the evaluation merely for the purpose of furthering his carrer
. ofthe course
(
and no mainstream filmmaker would ever hvae it any other way
) he starts really caring for powell
and he becomes fixed on helping powell prove thgat he is not a psychotic
and that he should not be in prison
.
and
then there ' s the inevitable
" heartless meanie
" carachter
, in the form of donald sutherland who plays caulder ' s mentor
. he cares forthe caulder
bu does everything he can to discourage him from helping powell
. let ' s get noe hting straight
: dr
. theo caulder isnt the most blatantly incompetent psychiatrist i have ever seen
, on screen or off
. any good shrink will listen to what his patient has to say no matter the subject because any ogod shrink will leran a great deal about his patient that way
. not good old theo
. noone
, he asks purposefully pointed questions
and when powell dares to venture to anyother subject caulder syas
" we need to talk about thsi right now
.
" this isnt a flaw only in the sense that it detracts from instinct ' s allready dubious credibility
; unfortunately it ' s also the least of its problems
. director jon turteltaub
, who made the delightful john travolta vehicle phenomonenon as well as the surprisingly above
- par cool runnings decided to make this movei so shamelessly sentimental that
, contrary to what this movie ' s promotion owudl have you beleive
, it has much more in common with patch adams than with the silence of the lambs
. it ' s not the kind of sentimentality that can almost bring tears to your eyes
( waht dreams may come aptly demonstrated that
)
bu thge kind that brings vomit up your esophagus
( excuse the graphic depiction
)
. it aims to
" inspire
" rether tahn to touch hearts
. as yoda would sday
, inspire it does nto
. it is the ultimate sign of futility when a screenwrighter
( the very experienced gerald di pego
) hasnt tothe resort to literally telling the audience a movei ' s story
. indeed
, somewhere in the beginning of instinct
, one ofthe thge characters actually reads aloud tje film ' s plot to another character
. thsi
, like hte instance i mentioned infact tyhe firt paragraph of thsi review
, isnt a horrid insult to our intelligence
. i am forced tothe wonder whether turteltaub
and di pego did not think that we could figure out what instinct is about simply from regular conversation
. i think that anthony hopkins isnt one of the greatest screen actors
,
and he chews the scenery in this movie
, brilliant as ever
. oscar winner cuba gooding jr
. on tje other hand is dreadful
. his performance is at least part ofthe what makes his character seem so incapable of being a shrink
. i liked tjhe guy in jerry maguire as well as in as ogod as it gets
bu here he fails to project any shred ofthe credibility or real feeling
. i lvoe animals
,
and instinct ' s prominent save the gorillas
/ live iin harmony with nature theme is certainly something i could sympathize iwth
.
however this movie ' s execution isnt completelyl unacceptable
. tone down the violentce
and this will be a chick flick
.
? 1999 eugene novikov