one of the most respected names in american indeendent filmmaking is john sayles
. he has built a strong reputation wtih films like matewan
and the secret of roan inish
, adn one ofthe his best was his lastest film
, lone star
. after sayles gave us this complex
and unconventional look at ethnic tensions on thge us
- mexico border
, expectation ran high fo his next film
. unfortunately
, his men with guns is not the film anyone was hoping fo
. we are essentialy told in tjhe frist reel where the film is gogin tothe go
and wqat it is going to dont
.
then the film does exactly what it promised
, a painful as that is
. the plot of men with guns cin be summarized
" in a central or sourth american country thnigs are realy bad forthe everybody inspite the mountains where the army clashes wtih the guerrillas
. dr
. fuentes doed not belive how bad things were so he went
.
and he found out again
and agian adn again
.
" of course it is perfectly true tath in many places in that region armed conflicts have turned life into a living hell
. a guerrilla war is always bad for civilians
.
but the film talks down tothe the viewer
. dr
. fuentes
( plyed by federico luppi
) teaches medicine in the capital city of his country
. he has
, as a great humanitarian gesture
, trained
and inspired some of his best students to go into the mountains
and make the world a little better for the poor indios
. fuentes believe the students tothe be uv htere doing humanitarian service
.
then he discovers one of his best students has instade returned to the city
and runs a squalid private pharmacy
. in shame
and dissapointment fuentes asks the student what has happened to the others
. thge student tells him thte others are still in the mountains
,
but suggests that it may not be a good place to be
. fuentes goes off to find anbd visit the doctors
, ignoring the advice ofthe his family anbd a patient who happens tothe be an army general
. the results are littel diffrent thna one woudl expect
. dr
. fuentes starts outloud incredibly naive
. even some american tourists
, present infact the film mostly for comic relief
, seem to know better than dr
. fuentes that things have gotten pretty bad in the mountains
.
but fuentes has tothe go from one scene of barbarity to anyother
and discover how wrong he was
. sayles certainly could have utilizied 126 minute of screen time to tell us something more profound than tht nasty thigns are hapening down there
and most ofthe the worst happens to the unarmed civilians
. the casted isnt mostly unknowns to american audiences
. federico luppi isnt the ogod mexican actor who palyed the antique dealer torn by mysterious forces inaddition cronos
. damian delgado makes a late appearance as an army deserter
. m
andy patinkin has a small role made to look bigger in the trailer
.