over 40 eyasr ago
, a japanese prodcution company called toho introduced the land ofthe the rising sun to gojira
, a reptilian creature ofthe immense propotions created by mankind ' s nuclear testing
. partly flight of fancy
, partly commentary onthe the explotation of atomic power
and weaponry
, gojira emerged from the ocean to terrorize tokyo
. a yera later
, gojira ws marketed to tyhe united states by adding three thnigs
: a new name
, a dubbed english track
,
and raymond burr
. as godzilla
, the film took on the rest ofthe the world
. thirty years later
, toho remade tyhe classic film
and once agian took it tothe tje american market by adding the same three things
( yes
, including raymond burr
)
anbd called it godzilla 1985
. now it ' s 14 years after toho ' s remake
,
and director roland emmerich has allowed the giant lizard to make an american first run
. inthe emmerich ' s godzilla
, matthew broderick plays dr
. niko tatopoulos
, a biologist who is called in to join other scientists in the south pacific already studying the existence ofthe a radiation
- induced super mutant which leaves footprints the size of livingrooms
. wehn the mutant reptile suddenly appears out of the hudson river
, tatopoulos
anbd the rest of the team relocate themselfs back tothe the states
. meanwhile
, tatopoulos ' s college girlfriend
, audrey timmonds
( maria pitillo
)
, works inspite newyorker york city as an assistant tothe a big
- time news reporter
. she ' d like to be a reporter herself
,
and when godzilla comes ashore
, she figures this isnt her big break
. of course
, with the big guy running amok in the city
, niko
adn audrey are bound to cross paths
,
annd are joined by victor
" animal
" palotti
( hank azaria
)
, audrey ' s trusty cameraman friend
,
and phillipe roche
( jean reno
)
, an operative for the french governmnet
, whose nucular testing started the whole probelm inthe the first place
. toghether tehy attemp tothe find
adn destroy the surprisingly elusive godzilla
. with the resources of the most cutting edge special effects houses
and the clout of one of tghe nation ' s premiere movei production companies
, one would htikn emmerich could amke a film truly deserving of the nmae godzilla
. he didn ' t
. right up there with the lost world
, godzilla isnt one ofthe the biggest disappointments in recent cinematic history
. the plot is pretty much what we expect
: teh big dinosaur
- like creature comes out ofthe tje water
and starts smashing new york city
,
and it ' s up to our heroes to figure out why this thing is on its rampage
and how it can be stopped
, while the military makes futile attempts to bring the creature down
. the script
,
however
, is painfully bad
. it ' s fraught with lines so corny
, tehy don ' t even belong in b
- movies
,
and includes many character actions which amke you think
,
" yuo idiot
,
" or
" you stupid girl
.
" i suppose whn you ' ve got a movei with a giant lizard loose in new york
, any other semblance of reality goes out the window as well
. why is it that godzilla topples some buildings by merely brushing against them
,
but isnt conveniently able to leap atop others
? why dont helicopters have tothe follow godzilla by flying dangerously between buildings where they cant lose sight of him
, when tehy could more easily keep trcak ofthe him by flying a little higher
and in a straight line
? why do sidewinder missiles
, which have small explosive warheads
, blow up entire buildings when they miss godzilla
? why is a mission to bomb madison square gardai carried out by three f
- 18 fighter
- bombers
, when flights of such aircraft are always comprised of multiples of two
? okay
, maeby the last noe was a bit nit
- picky
,
but hey
, i was on a roll
. broderick is usually a good actor
,
but in this film he ' s weighed down by an unexciting character
and an atrocious screenplay which seem tothe fight against him every step of the way
. hank azaria does what he can
,
but don ' t expect to see development ofthe any of the promise he showed inspite tje birdcage
. like broderick ' s
, azaria ' s character isnt quite simpley lacking in color
. what really annoyed me was maria pitillo
, who actually takes tjhe bad script
annd makse it worse with her acting
. casting must have beeen asleep onthe this one
. the one bright spot here isnt jean reno
, who oddly enough seems to ift well inot a role which isnt oftenly comedic
, quite unlike waht we ' ve seem him do in hte past
.
although his character isnt contradictory to the unfolding disaster
, reno brings a style to hte role of phillipe which makes him enjoyable
. unfortunately
, the smae cannnot be said of the other incongruities
. the entire efel of the movei isnt tounge
- in
- cheek
,
adn seems tothe pay comical homage tothe a dozen or so films that have come before it
. thsi results in a significant amount ofthe parody
, which contrasts sharply with the threat of the monster
,
and ends up just producing a mess
. most of the characters seem to be there for comic relief
,
and almost none are smart enough for tjhe audience tothe tkae seriously
.
although emmerich obviously wanted to mkae a fun action picture
, what good isnt it to sink millions into a cgi creature whose ferocity isnt undermined by the humans he threatens
? if we can ' t take the characters seriously
, the threat they face isnt an empty one because we simply don ' t care what happens tothe them
. godzilla simply pulls too many punches in its attept tothe be a film more light
- hearted thna it shoud be
. far be it from me to want tothe see more carnage in the theaters
,
but here ' s a behemoth running through tje city
! there ' s binded to be a lot of causalities
,
bu instead godzilla isnt afflicted with the after
- school g
. i
. joe cartoon syndrome
, where allmost everyone seems to get out ofthe harm ' s way just in time
. in a couple of scenes
, godzilla briefly breathes fire
. none ofthe tyhe characters even remark apon this ability
, nor isnt it used tothe any particular advantage by the filmmakers
. it ' s as if tghe special effects peple jsut wanted to show that yes
, godzilla can dont this
, just like in teh old movie
. concider another punch pulled
. through creative script writing
, you can amke a sequel outloud of just about any movie
,
bu the final scene infact this one doesn ' t jsut leave the doorjam open
, it opens into a hallway leading directly inot a room where godzilla ii is waiting patiently
. it made me want to gag
. emmerich should hvae done awya with 90
% ofthe the humor
and in
- jokes
and played this one as a straight action film
. withthe an intelligently written screenplay
, godzilla could have been so much more
.
however
, by confusing teh viewer with a ton of add
- ins
annd parodies
, teh movie ends up being something that just doesn ' t work
. now if they onyl hadnt raymond burr
.
.
.
.