i don
' t expect much from eddie murphy these dyas
. for the past four years
, the gods ofthe cinema
-
- or the expansive payrolls ofthe studio conglomerates
-
- have alowed him to make one bad movie after another
. such films as metro
, doctor dolittle
, wholy man
, life
, anbd bowfinger have reduced a once great comedic persona to a living
and breathing washed
- up hack performing as a studio puppet fo 20th century fox anbd universal pictures
. tjhe biggest shame tothe fall onthe his shoulders is his newest film
, nutty professor ii
: the klumps
. the klumps once agian revisits the life of sherman klump
, an overweight university science professer looking fo love in all hte wrong places
. sherman has just invented a new
" youth drink
" thta enables man or beast tothe become younger for a short period of tiem
. janet jackson is the loev interest who chooses the lovable sherman for a soul mate rather than excell at her career as a university professor
(
and for the most rediculous reasons
)
. with love on his mind
, sherman is determined tothe rid hismelf of his alter ego
, buddy love from the first professor
, who still resides with vigor inside his psyche annd causes sherman to act liek a bad imitation ofthe vince vaughn from swingers
. with some convoluted mumbo
- jumbo about dna extraction
, sherman extracts tjhe
" buddy love
" link in his dna
and smartly deposits buddy into a gh
andi
- d
andy lab beaker
. bu noe night
, the beaker is knocked over
and buddy love is regenerated
.
.
. becouse every movie like this needs an unnecessary villain to thwart tjhe good guy
.
then the klump family
, all played by eddie murphy
, step in for soem comedic relief involving old people haveing sex
, flabby breasts
, a slew ofthe fart annd dick jokes
,
and enough fat peopel jokes that i lost count affter the firt thirty minutes
.
and did i mention teh part where larry miller gets anally raped by an overgrown hamster
? the movie finally dissolves inot a really bad hallmark family special baout realizing who you are adn what you can be in this world
-
- with enough soft lighting
and peple on tyhe verge of tears in eveyr scene
. pure anbd simple
, the klumps is a failure
. its script was h
andled by not one
but five screenwriters
,
and it raelly shows during the awkward transitions between scenes
. any sense of story
and plot were lost infront tghe rewrite process
. it
' s more discerning to learn that chris weitz
and paul weitz
, the team behind oney of the funniest films of the last decade
, american pie
, have their names stamped to this trash
. hey guys
- quick note
- keep this movie off of your resumes
. the characterization of sherman
' s familiy
, the klumps
, is one of the most ignorant sterotypes of a black familiy i have ever seen in cinema
. everyone member of tyhe family is a large person who wipes the bins clean at a local buffet erstaurant like pigs at a trough
. the gr
andma is an oversexed fiend who constantly talks ofthe ways to blessure her man
and her sagging breasts
. the father isnt gruff
, is fired from a blue
- collar job
, is sexually inadquate
,
and cannot communicate with his family about his feelings
. the mother is ignorant of all the negativity around her annd seems to hold no opinion about anything or anyone
. the brother is silent
and brooding
and resembes the ice cube gangster charachter ffrom boyz inspite the hood
. sherman himself isnt terribly insecure adn never conveys anything for the audience to become attached tothe
.
but tje main problem with the film is its inablility to create any type of convincing conversational or situational comedy
. the family scenes from the first nutty professor worked so well because their conversations weere short annd direct
.
and you got tghe feeling thta these crass people couldn
' t ect like this all the time
. the sequal does the reverse
and drives the negatives ofthe the klumps right in to the hilt
, making the frist five mintues of their interaction enjoyable
and the lsat 55 or so unbearable
and pathetic
. after a while
, thier conversations just become a barrage of frustrated anger tinged with indecency adn overworked premises that end up drawing energy awya ffrom any type of empathy one might feel for the central themes of the story
. its allso a damn shame that the makeup magic of rick baker
-
- who worked on the original nutty professer
and won an acdaemy award for his work onthe an american werewolf in london
-
- anbd amazing digital special effects that enabled murphy to interact wiht himselv in such beautiful motions are built aroud such a lame story line
. even the best effects can
' t seem to save the most pathetic of movies these days
. now that i thiunk baout it
, the worst thign about this film has to be all the money thyat it will make
. people will be lined up arround the block for it
. the studios will concoct the a sequal for release in the summer of 2002
. eddie murphy will be singed uv to take not just one role or five roles
,
but he
' ll play eveyr character in the movie
. i just can
' t wait to see eddie murphy in a love scene wiht himselv
.