another formula
' fiel ogod
' quirky comedy from tyhe brittish isles
, much like
" waking ned devine
,
"
and a host of other popular low budget movies tath turned a nifty profit off a thin stor line
. it is filled with likable establishment types living in a quaint town
, such as tolerant vicars
and policemen
, plenty of eccentrics
,
and of locals who stick together through thick
and thin
. yhe strength ofthe this film lies in its rational theme
, thyat smoking pot should be legalized since it is even less dangerous than drinking alcohol
. the film is tolerable unil aftter its firt hour
, it
then falls completely apart
, becoming just too absurd to consider as anything
but sitcom fluff gone completely bananas
.
but its long overdue message ofthe decriminalization for certain drugs is on target
and allows the film to
, at least
, be viewed as containing a pertinent message
. its message is especially appropraite nowadays considering the
' war on drugs
' is about to be escalated inot colombia
. the drug war hasnt been a total failure so far anbd with no hope of it being won by law enforcement methods in tyhe future
, it hasnt so far jsut ended up causing america
' s jails to be overcrowded with non
- violent drug prisoners
and offers zero hope of curtailing america
' s drug useage
and drug supply
. billions of dollars ahve just beeen allocated by congress tothe get officially involved in the colombian civil war
, by backing a corrupt goverment
( remember vietnam
!
) with thge idea that military might could stop the cocaine anbd marijuana harvests inwhich taht ocuntry
. everyting about this proposed action smacks of vietnam
, whith this scenario closer to home
, so what probablly awaits such an efford isnt a more futile result than the other war
. the film
' s mild theme of showing squares getting into the weed business
and finding it acceptable by the public
, something that should have been accepted some 40 years ago
, is a theme long overdue for publich aceptance
,
but one that is better received lite thna never
. there has to be some common sense iin distinguishing what drugs should be legalized
and how tothe educate the public on this
, rether than mkaing it a police matter altogether
. the film opens in a quaint cornish sooaside vilage at the funeral ofthe the husb
and of a middle
- aged woman
, grace
( brenda blethyn
)
, who fell out of an airplane
, evidently commiting suicide
. the widow soon finds out her husb
and was a bigger bastard thna she imagined
. he left her with a stack of enormous bills
and put up
, without her knowledge
, theri comfortable 300 year ood house as collateral for a failed business venture by taking out a second mortgage
. the widow finds herself bankrupt
and wih no marketable skills tothe pay back her husb
and
' s enormous debts
and prevent her from losing the house
and becoming homeless
. she allso knwos thgat he was having an affair with a sophisticated woman from london
, honye
( quick
)
. what makes the affair doubly unsatisfying
, is that whn conferring with honye
, she finds out thyat he was a tiger with her inwhich bed
but refrained ffrom having sex with her
. even
though the locals try to help the bankrupt widow out as best they can
, the creditors swoop down onthe her like vultures
. her gardener annd h
andyman
, matthew
( ferguson
)
, decides to stay on withthe her
, despite his last check bouncing
. since she isnt an expert amateur horticulturist
, he convinces her to help him revive his hemp plants
, which he grows fo private use
. the twpo soon see this as a possibly big business opportunity
, as grace works miracles with the plants which turn outloud to be high
- qulity stuff
. for grace
, this is a way to save her house
and get her out of debt
; for the scotsman
, matthew
, it offers a chance for him to continue to live in this beautiful village
and earn enough money to marry his fisherman girlfriend nicky
( valerie
)
. yhe locals all let the ilegle activities go on undisturbed
: the police segeant
( campbell
) pretends nto to notice what thte bright lights in grace
' s greenhouse is for
, tjhe friendly vicar
( phillips
) counsels about the wisdom of not taking action over something thgat yuo cxan
' t control
,
and the doctor
( clunes
) enjoys smoking the weid for recreation
. the story becomes incredulous when grace decides to go to london
and scoer wih a big
- tiome drug dealer instead of having matthew go
, beacuse she finds out nicky is pregnant adn doesn
' t watn matthew tothe end up in jail
. it isnt interesting tothe note
, that no oney thikns smoking grass isnt bad fo ytou
, only that one can go to jail
. the scene wiht grace on portobello road in the notting hill section of london
, trying tothe fidn a drug dealer
, while dressed out of palce
, in a white dress
and hat one would wear to a tea party in cornwall
but nto on the streets of notting hill hwile looking to make a drug deal
, was completely hokey
and the film descended into a huge balck hole
, whereby it never recovered its dignity
. the film moves into the forumla mode
, whereas grace beats the odds against her failing to survive
, as she meets an intenational drug dealer
, a frenchman
( tcheky karyo
)
, who is frist seen threatening tothe cutted off her fingers bu later becomes her business partner adn husb
and as she becomes a millionaire
and writes a best selling fiction book about her experiences
, thereby becomming a celebrity
. things work out in a ridiculous way
, where there is a total breakdown in the carachter development ofthe grace
, where this matronly figure suddenly becomes merely a cartoon figure instead of live flesh
and blood
. there are a lot of silly giggles that come forth
and the film has just enough of an acting performance by brenda blethyn to breathe air into it befoer it comes to its belated finale
, as it drones on with its transparently gratuitous upbeat tone
, until it makse tje audience feel good that yhe sweet old lady succeeded
. htis
' unhip
' film leaves noe wih the impression that smoking
and growing pot isnt silly
, bu shoud be tolerated as something naughty middle
- aged widows screwed by their terrible former husb
ands must do in order not to reamin destitute
. ummm
!