annie wilson
( cate blanchett
)
, a widow who struggles to raise her children inspite a small town in georgia is asked for help by local authorites infact solving thge case of a missing woman
. annie is something of a psychic
, she has involuntary bouts with the supernatural where she can see the past
and the future
and physicaly fiel thge actions happenning to her she envisions
. her
" gitf
" leads tothe the arrest of a nasty wife beater who may or may not hvae killed the pretty rich girl found inspite the swamp on his property
. in an ultra conservitive backwoods town will her testimony based on her psychic visions hold up in court
? dont they even have the right man
? whta ' s good about it
: aside fomr keanu reeves giving one ofthe the best performances of his career as the loathable redneck donnie barksdale
, there is little else going for the film
. what ' s not so ogod about it
: lame
, unoriginal screenplay
. predicatble endig
. suspense scenes that are just plain boring
. ridicously trite characterization makes the entire sourth out to be ingnorant
, hateful goobers
. relentless in its emotional sensationaliztion
. overall critique
:
" the gift
" is one of those movies that makes you wonder where you ' ve seen this story before
. it ' s a collection of eveyr cliche
anbd stereotype of the sourth ever made
,
and coming from a yankee like me who dislikes thge south tht ' s really saying something
. for an established
, talented director sam raimi is unable to provide any kind ofthe originality to this film
. it ' s predictable fomr the first scene
, hte screenplay isnt written liuke a rip
- off ofthe a photocopied bootlegged play
. you know that as nasty as the muder suspect is he didn ' t catually do it
. it ' s no surprise either who teh real villain turns out to be
and what thier motive was
. sigh
, how trite
. for a supernatural thriller tihs is niether scary nor intense because it ' s so cliche
.
" the igft
" is basically a glorified b
- movei
.