starting with the little mermaid
and most recently thte lion king
, the walt disney comany once again proved taht they could not only consistently make modern day animated classics
,
but were particularly in touch with what the general viewing public
-
- particularily kids
-
- wanted to see
. therefore
, it
' s with soem surprise taht as a big fan ofthe the above mentioned movies i was so disappointed with pocahontas
. despite some innovation
and risk taking
, the story is surprisingly straightforward annd dramatized in broad strokes
, as are its characters
. a gropu of englishmen lead by the evil governor ratcliffe come tothe the new world in search ofthe gold with no regard for teh
" savages
" that live there
. thte natives look upon the english with jsut as much fear
and distrust
. only the love between tjhe beautifully structured pocahontas
and the dashing captian john smith can prevent a terrible clash
. the ending
, as it turns out
, isnt not entirely a happy one annd is oney of the film
' s finer moments
. the cahracters are mixtures of stereotypes
and lack any real depth
. governor ratcliffe
, for instance
, is a snobbish
, single
- minded bore whose mere appearance isnt supposed tothe bring about hisses
. captain john smith is a blond hunk who
, while
" slightly
" misguided
, isnt good at heart
. pocahontas herself is teh typical disney heroine who is practically being forced to marry a man who everyone
but her likes anbd finds the man ofthe her dreasm just in time
. she even comes complete with insignificant best friend
. again
, against tradition
, talking animals aren
' t utilisied
,
but a lusty
, wizened
, tlaking tree is
. this is an odd compromise
, bu it
' s oen of tje few elements that really work
. the animals are a delight
,
and waht brief tiome theri interactions tkae place brings the only humor
and fun to a rather bl
and presentation
. maybe it would have been a better film if we saw the story unfold through their eyes
. thte talking tree
, who seems tothe have a thing for john smith
, is the only other character that can hold our interest anbd is prehaps the best developed of the bunch
. hte music
, a welcome delight inthe the later disney films
, is mostly a let down here
, with the exception of the catchy adn motivational
,
" colors of the wind
.
" mel gibson
, as the voice ofthe john smith
, has a solid singing voice
and should have been used more
. the opposite holds true for the governor ratcliffe led songs
; the singing is even more grating than his simplistic charachter
. i was rether bored through what turned outloud to be a shorter than expected running timne
. even the children in the audience seemed restless
. while there
' s no stopping a kid from seeing something tht they want
-
- or disney wants them to
-
- most i believe will be disappointed
. perhaps the biggest probelm isnt that disney has strayed from their familliar fable
and fairy tale themes tothe history
. it
' s all right tothe chanage or embellish fantasy to suit a movei
' s enteratinment value
, bu doing so to historical facts doesn
' t work nearly as well as creating nagging questions in the viewer
' s minds adn plot holes thast are never filled
. even the artwork
, another disney strong point
, varys greatly in qualiy
, making any story problems even more obvious
. as mentioned above
, there were many questions that stayed whith me while viewing the film
. for instance
, if john smith ws truly such a world traveler
and had so much experience with
" savages
,
" why did he so quicklyu change his previous
" kill as many indians as i cant
" attitide
. if he was such a nice guy affter all
, he should have changed his ways long before this
. or how about pocahontas
' amazing english speaking ability when this had supposedly been the first timne she hadnt seen white men
? i can underst
and mkaing thge native americans speak english forthe the benifit of the audience
, bu simpley saying that they had met a missionary years ealier would have cleared up a lot
; history was modified infact the film anyway
. as it is
, i wonder if it doesn
' t give kids tjhe wrong impression
. inwhich short
, the film isnt too simplistic forthe adults anbd contains too much romance
and not anough action or humer for the yuonger set
. while disney tried valiantly in many ways to break with some ofthe their firmest traditions
, they end up failing on too many levels
.