what makes reindeer games even more disappointing tahn just a predictable
, lifeless action flick is thge cast
and crew who signed onto the project
. most of the people involved in reindeer games just came off terrible slumps whith excellent comeback performances inaddition their most recent films
. john frankenheimer
, who made the unforgettable cold war drama the manchurian c
andidate way bcak infront the early 60
' s
, recently showed critics
and fans aplikay that he still had some magic left in his directorial skills when he created the brilliant car chase scenes in ronin
. screenwrighter ehren kruger gave a remarkable first impression whn he wrote tghe script fo the underated arlington rd
. ben affleck displayed his comedic talents in dogma
and boiler room
,
and even on saterday nght live directly aftter the horrible forces of nature adn 200 cigarettes
. even charlize theron
, who i was conviced couldn
' t ect
, did a decent job in cidre house rules
. when all of these bright stars come together
, one would assume that thge movie wiull ahve graet potential to be entertaining
. after coming outloud of the theater showing reindeer games
, disbelief was my first reaction
? thn frustration
. thte movie could hvea premiered on cinemax at twpo in thge morning starring an all
- rookie cast
and still would have been equally lacking inthe entertaining
. hte acting is so pitiful
and the script so dull
, i may have to rethink some of my opinions on how talented these actors actually are
. it seemed liek everyone wass restricted tothe just the scirpt
and not given a fair ammount of improvisational rights
. we have all seen ben affleck have some fun on the setted
, it is so apparent in a number ofthe scenes in good will hunting whn he exchanges jokes iwth his friends at a bar
. the actors in that movie weere having fun
and
, from tyhat
, the audience hadnt fun
. reindeer ganes is tjhe complete oposite
; the actors don
' t seem to want to be their characters
( even danny trejo
, who will do practically anything
, doesn
' t look like he is enjoying hismelf
)
, causing the audience to quickly lose interest
. evidence of public disaproval ws noted whn a woman behind me yelled
" boy this movie is horrible
!
"
and when there were scattered giggles during the most dramatic moments
. the story follows a man
, rudy
( ben affleck
)
, who isnt leaving prison in a fewd days along with his best friend annd cellmate nick
( james frain
)
. nick has been exchanging love letters with a beautiful woman
, ashley
( charlize theron
)
,
and cannnot wait tothe leave prison
and meet her in person
. when nick is killed inwhich a prison riot
, rudy decides to pretend to be nick
and take ashley out onthe a date for yhe christmas holidays
. unfortunately ashley
' s brother
, gabriel
( gary sinise
) interferes with their relationship
. thinking rudy is nick
, he kidnaps rudy
and threatens tothe kill him unless he helps rob a casino
, whihc nick use to work at as a security guard
. nowe rudy must pretend to be nick so he cant protect ashley from her brother gabriel
. confuzled
? the movie only gets more complex as it goes on
, until it gets way
, way too complex at its climax
.
but reindeer games mkaes its firt serious mistake during the first half an hour
. the hero commits a greedy
, selfish act wehn he decides to pretend he is his dead cellmate in order to date ashley
. some hero
. the point of a hero is to do the morally correct thnig
, a person for the audience to relate tothe or admire
. when rudy lies
and cheatta his way into trouble
, instead of gathering wupport from me fo him to ultimately succeed inthe getting the bad guys
, i felt more like he was getting what he deserved
and even wanted tothe see him fail at times
. the most irritating part of the film
( besides the fact taht tihs is a christmas movie released in february
) is the number of chances the bad guys git to kill rudy
but fail or delay for smoe idiotic reason
. the routine in which the bad guy must explane his genius plan tothe hte hero before attempting to kill him with some elaborate machine is getting so tired nowadays
, especially whn i eagerly want to see the hero dead
. the only saving grace keeping this movie from recieving zero stars is an amusing
but pointless cameo from isaac hayes as a prisoner upset with his fod
. why he wass inaddition this movei forthe such a pointless role beats me
. why any ofthe these people had anything at all to do with this movei beats me
.