i never understood what the clich
?
" hell on earth
" truley meant until very recently
. i ' ve jsut never experianced anything infront my life which was so terrifying
, so horrible
, so monstrously deplorable that it justified being termed as
" hell on earth
"
. after all
, i ' ve never beeen tothe war
, i ' ve never been the victim ofthe any violent crime
, i ' ve never really been broken hearted
,
and i ' ve never beeen audited
; so i really hadnt no frame of reference as to peple meaned whn they said that something wass
" hell on earth
"
then i saw cruel intentions
. inthe a perfect world
, i would be inspite charge ofthe all the movie studios
. the vyre first thing i ' d do in this perfect world
, woudl be to tkae eveyr hollywood producer who thinks that setting any stroy in contemporary america with a 20
- something cast palying teenagers
and featuring a soundtrack ripped directly fomr mtv
,
and throw them in jail
.
but it wouldn ' t just be your average jail
, nto even a maximum security installation
. i ' d have these producers
(
annd everyone else involved in the production of these films
) put in front ofthe a war crimes tribunal
and forced to beg for mercy fo their crimes against humanity
. now you ' re probablly thinking to yourself
:
" is this really how bad cruel intentions isnt
?
" the answer isnt no
. it ' s actually much worse
. watching the cast of this motion picture atrocity try tothe act theri way through roger kumble ' s awfully written script is probably a lot liuke stabbing youself inthe the arm wih a chainsaw
adn
then pouring salt onthe tjhe open wound
.
and
hten pouring acid on the salt
. i don ' t konw if kumble was trying to evoke comedy or tradgedy out ofthe his opening scene where marci greenbaum
( tara reid
) whines about having nude photos ofthe her posted on the internet
,
bu the only emotion i felt wass sheer boredom
. from thta opening scene
, where boring atcor ryan phillippe tries tothe seduce tv actress swoosie kurtz
, tothe tjhe conclusion which i don ' t remember because i had practicly fallen asleep
; cruel intentions is truly
" hell onthe earth
,
" right uv there with war
and tax audits
.