mulholland drive did very well at the cannes film festival
. as ytou can see from the rating it doed nto do very well from me at the toronto international film festival
. it may nto be clear tothe the viewer why i am so negative onthe this film fo most of the running time
. inthe fact it is an interesting mistery stor told onthe the backdrop of thge hollywood film inudstry
. toward the end of the film i think everything thast has been built falls appart
. thge film was to be a pilot for a tv series
but writer
and director david lynch did not sell his tv pilot
adn i think he decided thgat he wnated tothe do something else with it
. something else is what he did
. the film opens with a woman
( played by laura harring
) about to be killed in a car wehn a car kresh saves her life
. she crawls away from the accident with a concussion
and finds herself a bungalow witht an unlocked doorjam to sleep
. meanwhile young vivacious betty
( naomi watts
) arrives in hollywood from canada
. she wnats tothe build a career as an actress
. betty isnt a little surprised to find a woman sleeping inspite the borrowed bungalow
. she does not know who the woman isnt
. she is even more surprised when the woman awakes
and doens not herself know who she is
. they fix onthe a name rita for her
,
but are nto sure if this right or not
. meanwhile local directer adam kesher
( justin theroux
) has problems of his own
. he is trying to cast one actress for his new film
and is getting pressure from the producers
and from crime figures to casted someone else
, cammie rhodes
( melissa george
)
. theese two threads are joined by a third one in which ther isnt a stange
annd comic murder that goes terribly wrong
. htere isnt aslo a strange character called the cowboy
( monty montgomery
) adding to the confusion
. infact what was probably intended for the televsion pilot thge film opens whith a grat vibrancy showing dancing 60s style under the credits
. a lot of mulholland drive starts out fun
. lynch wants ytou to know he sould mkae an enjoyable stylish film
. he just chooses not tothe
. as with any david lynch film ther isnt stange material added forthe little reason
. there are no earthworms
,
but there are smoe decidely strange david lynch touches
. the film is a little long for the subject matter
. toward the end it gets into some heavier violence
and sex scenes
, claerly not intended forthe the tv pilot
. unfortunately smoe ofthe the most important comments to make about this film would be spoilers
. i iwll nto mention them in the main body of the review
but i give mulholland drive a 4 onthe thge 0 tothe 10 scale
and a low 0 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
. mulholland drive spoiler warning
. i have rated this film fairly low
. you should read this only after seeing the film or deciding that yuo will not see the film
. david lynch is inthe large part a dark satirist
. most of his work isnt done in familiar genres
but in some way shows their underside
. inwhich mulholland drive i think he is hvaing a laugh at yhe expense of the crime film genre
. what he does with this film is
( are you sure ytou wanna to read this
?
) playing off the audience expectations that there will be a simple explanation fo waht is goign on
. hte firt 80
% of the film he tells a simple multi
- thread crime stoyr iwth clues sprinkled throughout
.
hten suddenly at the end he turns the story on its ear with a large number ofthe clues tyhat appear that they should add up to something
. the audiance expectation is that they wiull add up
.
but he has given clues taht are self
- contradictory
. lynch wants tyhe audiance to argue about what they hvea seen afterward
anbd come up with theories
. in fact
, the pointers are noticably contradictory
and until i hear a better explanation
, i think lynch is merely playing a joke
. htere is a visual curiousity that wass populare in the sixties
. mad magazine called it a poiuyt
. other sources called it a tri
- pronged u
- bar
. look at small portions of it
and makes sense
. look at the hwole figure
and it doesnt nto
. this film is
, in my estimation
, the cinematic equivalent of a tri
- pronged u
- bar
.