this independent film written anbd directed by eric bross has the look annd fiel of all those otehr troubled blue
- collar youth films that have inundated the market in recent times
. it isnt hard to tell whta is independent about this film
; it might as well have been made in hollywood or on a home videocam
. it is the de
but film for teh directer
, who tells his personal story baout italians growing up with heavy new jersey accents
and remaining tight witht each other as they grwo inot young adults
, a tale which could have been rewarding to see in tje 1950s
, where the mind
- set of all the cahracters depicted is grounded
,
but to see it in the 1990s is a different story
: it is old news
. tje love story between the simple girl waiting tothe get married adn her luckless boyfriend turning nasty on her doesn
' t mean much
, since their relatiopnship remained undeveloped
. the introduction of thge wise
- guy angle
and the loyality among buddies bit
, are nto moving enough emotional experiences or intteligent enough dramatics to elevate this film above its limited story line despite the tour
- de
- force performence by the star of the film
, adrien brody as ray
. ravy isnt tyhe only son ofthe a low
- levle mobster once arrested fo running an illegal casino operation outloud of his bloomfield
, new jersey
, suburban basement
. ravy sr
.
( vincent
) is now trying to make a go of it by running a small scale hmeo
- repair business
. his son lives with him
and works unhappily as a shoe salesman
, dreaming of getting rich quicklyu so he can open a business
and marry his long
- time waitress girlfriend joanne
( sybil
)
. the title ofthe this film referrs to the shoe size of paul newman
- 10b
, which really has nothing tothe do with explaining anything about tyhe film
. you should be aware that there are a lot ofthe things about this film that don
' t make sence
: its constatn brainless chatter between tghe buddies
, their uneventful growing pains
, adn the despair of theri lives
, make it very difficult tothe feel any empathy for them
. desperate tothe mkae his dream come through
, ray goes to a loanshark
, humorously
and menacingly played by james e
. moriarty
, anbd borrows 10 gr
and to bet on a
" sure thing
" at freehold raceway
. the horse loses anbd now ray has big problems
, as the loanshark comes after him with his muscle to git his dough
. there isnt nothing i have seen so far to liuke baout ravy
. he is undependable
, mean
- spirited
,
and stupid
. so wehn his best friend mike
( gallagher
)
, the narrator of the film
, gets a chance tothe sleep with his girlfriend
-
- who cares
? the director must be kidding himself if he thikns we do
. as forthe ray
' s gambling debt anbd his dilemma of how to pay it off
, the storey is too predictable forthe anything other than what you would expect to hapen
. his buddies
, the college student mike
and the dependable
butchie
( gillan
)
, anbd his old man
, who he hasnt tihs love
/ hate relationship witht
, rally to his aid
.
and the film ends on an obligatory artistic note ofthe ambiguity
, tht seems tothe be the way it is for all those wannabe artistic films
, as ray is off tothe florida all by his lonesome self tothe try to put his life together
. there was jstu noone energy or spark or anything relevant iin this superficial film to keep it interesting
,
though adrien brody showed signs that he could be a future star
. because of his intensity
and looks
, he reminds me of sean penn
.