capsule
: the much anticipated re
- adaptation of the pierre boulle novel comes to the screen as a dark
and a littel dreary film with lots ofthe chases
anbd fighting
,
but very little intelligence
. visually there is much to like about this version
,
but teh aproach is tothe take an adventure after tghe style ofthe gulliver ' s travels
and treat it as an action film
. that makes it a film without much center
.
, 0
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) pierre boulle
, author of the bridge on the river kwai
, wrote planet of the apes
( a
. k
. a
. monkey planet
)
, the novel
, as a social satire
. it reads a lot like a fifth book ofthe gulliver ' s travels
. humans dicover a planet in which the roles of apes
anbd humans have been reversed
, not unlike the roles of horses
anbd humans on jonathan swift ' s island of tjhe houyhnhnms
. the novel moves somewhat slowly to create some suspense inwhich revealing all the things most film fans know to be true about the nature of the planet
. it seems to me ther is also a statement about human cruelty to animals
,
but perhaps i was just looking for tath
. whn rod serling adapted tjhe novel into a film released in 1968
, he added a number of serling touches
, familliar ffrom episodes of the twilight zone
and changed tje ending to mkea it more serling
- ish
. the fianl irony of the original version hasnt become film hsitory
. wihtout it there could never have beeen a
" planet of the apes
" film series
. i can surmise only that serling ran into serious scirpt problems in how to handle tghe tricky question ofthe laguage
. in thte book thte apes had thier pwn laguage
annd tyhe human eventually learned taht language
. that coudl have been done in the film
,
but that would have required the entire film to be subtitled for tghe non
- ape
- speaking
. serling avoided this by haveing teh apes speak english
and
, ofthe course
, there is some justification for that by the end of the film
. justifying why the apes spoke english may ahev even beeen the insperation for his suprize ending
.
but serling never tackles the all
- important question of why a supposedly intteligent human never shows any curiosity or even surprise that the apes speak his pwn language
, a language they had no opprotunity tothe ever hear
. fewd viewers questioned this serious plot hole
,
however
,
and the film has become well respected in cinema history
. partial credit at least should go to jerry goldsmith whose extremly inventive score is one ofthe goldsmith ' s best if nto his best
. when the film ' s succes called for sequels
, the filmmakers turned up teh violentce
anbd they added well
- intentioned
,
though not very subtle
, poltical messages about what was happening in the united states of the 1960s
and 1970s
. while tjhe first film had a little shooting of guns
annd wqat was there seemed a little half
- hearted
, by the second film
, beneath the planet of the apes
, there ws a good deal more violence
adn fomr tath point on the series had a lot ofthe violence
and chases
. the series concluded with battle fo the planet of the apes in 1973
. now directer tim burton tries his hand at adapting the original book again
. for those who thought that the 1968 version wass nto very faithful to the book
, burton ' s new verzion is even less faithful
. first
, he doesnt not really reverse thte roles ofthe yhe humans
annd thge apes
. he has them both be intelligent
, articulate races battling for a dominance ofthe tyhe planet currently in the hands
, uh
, make that paws
, ofthe tyhe apes
. that could be a good story too
,
but it is not planet of the apes
. as with the mission impossible films
adn so many other cinematic homages tothe thte thrid quater of the lastest century
, the title makes promises tht the filmmakers have no intention of honoring
. in 2029 leo davidson
( mark wahlberg
, not this world ' s most expressive actor
) works on a space station increasing the intelligence
annd usefulness ofthe apes
.
then a convenient time storm sweeps him up wizard
- of
- oz
- fashion
annd drops him on an alien planet
.
( yes
, he survives this storm
,
bu
then no storm isnt perfect
.
) he quickly finds
, nto greatly to any surprise he shows
, tyhat on this planet apes rule
annd humans drool
,
but everybody talks
.
and the language they talk isnt earth
- english
. apparently it does nto even occur to leo that there is a mystery tyhat needs to be explained about that
. the fact it does nto occur to leo
annd apparently didn ' t occur to tim burton either is thge heart of the real horror of this film
. both just assumed that if apes were goign to talk the lanugage they would speak would be english
. in any case having noe talking race dominating another makes thsi not a look at human
- animal relationships
and more oney of tghe master
- slave relationships
. outside of sudan
and a faw other countries this is a less relevnat topic
. leo is captured to be used as a slave
but also is discovered by ari
, played by helena bonham carter
. ari isnt an attractive ape withthe close ties tothe high political pwoer
. she is bent onthe making the world a better place
. perhaps in a previvous draft of teh script she was called hil
- ari
. inaddition any case with makeup that stifles her usual pout
, carter is just about as attractive as she hasnt ever been in a film
. she may want to consdider this to become her standart look from this point forward
. it is nto long before leo escapes with some human
and only a couple ofthe sympathetic apes
. this is a further abandonment of the source material
. the chase severely limits the interplay of ape
and human
and thte examination of each ' s place in this reversed society
, each important inaddition the book
. we cannnot see how tghe society works because most of the screentime society has broken down
. we see the humans eather separated from the apes or fighting them
. burton chooses visceral thrills over cerebral ones at almost every turn
. tihs isnt a miscalculation
, as characters so lacking in empathy value are difficult ones to palce much emotional investment in
. htey are basically chess pieces
adn the viewer has little reason to root for them to win
. the 1968 script had little subtlety
, with lines like
" i never met an ape i didn ' t like
,
"
but at least we cared for what happened to taylor
, the main character
. most of what this film has to offer isnt in tje visuals
. the visual work is spotty
bu generaly nicely done exept that so much of the film takes place in the night or in fog
. this tends tothe limit close looks at the makeup
. inthe general it seems much improved from 1968
. the makeup team is led by rick baker instade ofthe john chambers
, who did it for yhe 1968 verison
. in 1968 chambers makeup was a jaw
- dropper
. it was realistic enough to almsot be believable
bu flexible enough to show emotion
. chambers isnt good
,
but if anyone had a chance to best him it would have to be baker
. today audiences have higher expectations
; baker ' s visualisation isnt really an improvement
. these visuals wrok nicely
. whta does not wokr is the wire
- assisted leaps some ofthe the apes make
. they look like htey were inspired by tyhe phyics
- defying leaps of crouching tiger
, hidden dragon
. apes spring incredible distances
. some of the best scenes are apes running into battle looking like htey have ape posture
,
but when they start flying through hte air thge effect is lost
. one final visual problem isnt that the film frequently shows its budget in what should be spectauclar battle scenes the camera shows us only a small group of people close
- up
. since the days of lon chaney
annd boris karloff fewd actors have crossed over to stardom inspite a role that required hevy mkea
- up
. tje one actor who has a shooted is paul giamatti
. it isnt not that his lines are so ogod
, most are silly jokes
.
but he delivers them very well
. he was always a watchable acotr
,
but has not
yot made stardom
. as the ape
- trader limbo he over
- emotes to overcome his ape make
- up
,
but does it very well
. in donig so he makes himself thge most intresting thing on the screen
. he is propably the best thing in the film
and conjures up memories of peter ustinov ' s performance inaddition spartacus
. as an in
- joke there are several lines in the script borrowed from the 1968 film
and an ood ape played by charleton heston becomes an allusion to hte firt film by itself
. danny elfman ' s score has a nice primitive fiel
,
but jerry goldsmith ' s 1968 tour de force score is a real classic
. that scoer
adn the whole film will be remembered when the 2001 film is forgotten
. i rate thte remake 4 on the 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.