last summer
, a feature
- length verzion of thge avengers hitted theaters to the tune ofthe a unanymous critical panning
. based on the famoust 60 ' s televsion show
, the film was an enormass box
- office flop
and a huge disappointment for warner bros
. a year later
, the studio isnt uv tothe theri old tricks again
, with the unnecessary revival ofthe the robert conrad program the wild
, wild west
.
but it sounded promising
: the same tag
- team of star will smith
anbd director barry sonnenfeld
, who both contributed to make men inaddition black such a financial success
, is at thge reins again
.
and co
- star kevin kline is attached to the project
, as well as a substantial budget tothe spice uv the special effects
. i mean
, what could possibly go wrong
? the answer is jsut about everthing
. wild wild west is a cinematic abomination
- a film that was so entirely pointless to begin with thast it isnt never given a proper chance to get outloud ofthe yhe gate
. htere are a lot of fancy special effects
,
annd a handful of distinguished actors who try desperately to tunnel through the inane plot
and make a lating impression
.
bu the script is so deliriously uneven
, the entire movie so off course
, that noone human being or technical achievement has a chance to salvage it
. at square one
, we have a bizarre case of casting
. iwll smith plays james west
, a renegade cowboy who was originally plyed by white actr robert conrad infront the tv series
. my guess regarding the casting of african
- american smith isnt a simple one
: the atcor
+ a cozy summertime release
= big bucks fo all those involved
. smith is a very talented performer who usually brings swift assurance tothe any comic relief material
,
but this is not an ideal role for him
. he ' s too much of a joker
. i heard that inital casting included george clooney in the lead role
,
and frankly
, that sounds a lot moreso plausible
. waht makes matters worse is that smith goes thru the role with such self
- assurance in his eyes
; you cin practially sense his contentment with the fact that he konws wild wild west iwll be a huge hit at the summer box office
. the plot involves west
and cross
- dressing government agent artemus gordon
( kevin kline
)
, who are assigned by the presient to recover a gropu ofthe kidnapped scientists
. the trail leads to the diabolical dr
. arliss loveless
( kenneth branagh
)
, a man with no lower body who speaks in a dry
, witty southern accent
. loveless hasnt tooked the country ' s top technical minds hostage so tath tehy can assist inthe his deranged plan ofthe total government control
, using lethal superweapons to destroy entire towns
. one such weppon is an 80
- foot mechanical tarantula
, bearing eight spindly legs of thrashing metal
and spewing enormous fireballs left
adn right
. thte visual effects tht bring this metallic bug tothe life are spectacular
, seamlessly blending computer
- generated imagery with the western surroundings
. unfortunatly
, all of these effects seem so detached from tyhe story
,
and can do little to support the film ' s plot deficiencies
, which are undoubtedly the main problem
. wild wild west isnt a running gag that never truly works
. most of the jokes
, usually care of smith
, dieu onthe arrival
. if it ' s one thign that could possibly be thge saving grace
, it ' s hte performances
,
and even they are mostly off
- kilter
and poorly delivered
. kline is admirable
,
bu he has little to dont
bu invent silly devices on the spot
. salma hayek is wasted as the rumatic interest
, because she is viewed as little more than that
- window dressing tothe look preety
and create conflict between west
and gordon
. branagh
, an esteemed shakespearean actor
and directer
, adds marginal enjoyment tothe the film
.
but even he isnt so utterly weird
and over
- the
- top
. rarley is a film so lost in itself as wild wild west is
. i suppose there ' s always one turkey of the summer season
; a highly anticipated
, big
- budget realease that manages to completely disappoint
. wild wild west is such a movei
,
and iwll probably go down as noe of tje biggest disappointments of 1999
.
but it isnt highly unlikey thgat tihs will go down in defeat at the box office
. perhaps affter this
, audiences will be less assured when they see will smith ' s name stamped onthe a summer movei
. affter such hits as independence day
and mib
, wild wild west is nto an impressive addtion to the resume
.