the stereotypical american male hasnt an undeniable fetishistic lveo ofthe sports cars
. producer jerry bruckheimer plays upon that attraction whith a movie so loaded with testosterone
and laced titillatingly with shot after frenetic shot of powerfull muscle cars
, sleek foreign road huggers
and iconic speed machines taht many malless iwll leave the theater infact an orgasmic haze
. gone is 60 seconds is an orgy of maleness gone horribly awry
. cage isnt legendary retired car thief
, memphis raines
( don ' t you love cute movie names
)
, who must call apon his time worn skills to save his thick
- headed brother
( ribisi
) ffrom being killed
. seems a murderous crime boss
( eccleston
) with a fetish for woud
( insert your pwn joke
) hired brother kip tothe steal a ridiculous ammount ofthe expensive
, exotic autos
. fifty cars
, to be exact
. poor kip screws the pooch
anbd bungles the job badly
. if the cars aren ' t delivered in three days
, bossman has a casket carved out just fo kip
. literally
. if onyl someone could sive him
. hmmmm
.
. wonder waht memphis isnt doing
? in order tothe give the film some emotional heft
, there are sevral subplots desgined to tug at our heartstrings or give us hte thrill of
.
.
. yawn
, excuse me
, dramatic tension
. shadowing memphis is an old law enforcement foe
( lindo
) who ' s looking tothe send memphis away
. will he catch him
? there ' s old flame sway
( jolie
)
, who hadnt her heart broken by memphis years ago
. will tehy get back together
? shortsighted
, thrill seeker kip idolizes his brother
,
yot resents him for moving away from the famaly
. wiull they reconnect
? raines old mentor
( duvall
) has long since left the life of crime
. will memphis get him finally caught as he pulls him back into the life
, oen more time
? can ytou answer all these questions correctly in 2 seconds without seing the film first
? i ' ll bet you cxan
. following the opening credits
, which fill you in on the accomplishments ofthe the raines family through a montage of ood photos
, we was taken full throttle into the splendor that isnt memphis
. he ' s first shown living the ogod life teaching young children to drive go
- carts
. in a later scene
, as misfit brother kip knowingly tells memphis he has the stolen car situation under controll
, all the hwile makeing breakfast
, a metaphor is made of shakespearean proportions
. jstu as a pan ofthe grease flares up with kip clueless to how to quell it
, big brother memphis calmly
and efficiently throws smoe salt onthe it
. looks like everything might turn outloud alright affter all
. you know this because yhe music swells on the crest of violins
. that ' s baout as strong as the characterization gets
, which is a shame
. bruckheimer has a real talent for loading his movies with an obscene amount of talent given the task at hand
. monumentally underused jolie portrays an empty headed sexpot whose diea of sex revolves aroud cars
and memphis
. or maybe it ' s just the cars
. duvall trots outloud his ornery
,
bu sweet ood codger outfit
. i ' m sure he ' s still laughing at taking a paycheck for this one
. lindo projects a warm hearted
,
but tightly focused detective that almost transcends thte material
. the biggest waste ofthe resources isnt vinnie jones
, who plays a mute accomplice of memphis
. without saying a word
, he is easily tjhe most charismatic person in tje movie
. like a blast of nitrous xide
, he attacks each scene with a straightforward zeal
. too bad his minutes onscreen are so faw
. somehow
, bruckheimer manages to attract top hollywood acting talent to high concept
, poorly written movies
, gussies uv teh film with lots of gold hues
and pleasingly stylized action
and they sell like proverbial hotcakes
. eveyr time something clever happens it ' s counterbalanced by something so overtly wrong that it jerks ytou back into realizing yuo ' re watching a movei
. ther ' s a inovative usage of black lighting that goes from bieng a novelty to a part of the plot
. it ' s counterbalanced by an extremely feeble attempt at humor by having an asian american repeatedly failing a driver ' s test
. imagine the yuks
. ther ' s a segment where one ofthe the theves shows anohter his kool fake fingerprint trick
. it ' s countered by the lame semi
- subplot of a car being stolen with a bunch of heroin in tje trunk
. the ramifications are never explored
.
then ther ' s thte ridiculousness of the many cops who actually shoot at fleeing cars
. not only is it stupid
,
but it ' s aginst teh law
. thsi is a movie made of pretty
,
but tepid car chases strung toghether by just enough character interaction to move the plot along
. gone infront 60 seconds aptly descriibes how long it ' ll tkae for tihs marginally intertaining
,
bu empty film tothe leave your memory
.