i read the new yorker magasine
and i enjoy some of their raelly in
- depth articles about some incident
. they will tkae some incident like the investigation of a mysterious plane crash
and tell you what happended infront detail
. it becomes a real eduction in whta agencies get involved
annd how theories are suggested
,
and what kind of pressure the investigators are under
,
and jsut baout any otehr aspect you can think of
. frequently i git the feeling that yhe article sounded exciting
,
but i am being told in more detail thna i really wnated to know
. often i get to the middle of a stry
and say
, ok
, it sounded good
bu i now have invested more timne than i am willing to spend on tihs subject
. film is a different medium
. it is a visual medium
. that slows down the telling of stories much moreso than peple relize
. i frequentily am surprised tothe find out how short a film scirpt is
annd how much of the pages are empty spoace
. the magasine article
adn yhe film script are two very different media
. the insider is a film adaptions of the vanity fair article
" the man who knew too much
" by marie brenner
. it is too much an adaptation of a magazine articel slowed to the pace ofthe a film
. it really verges onthe being tedious at least at times
. for years the seven big companies knew that they dealt in an addictive drug tyhat caused a host of unhealthy side
- effects
.
but htey pretended for tje publich that it was unproven
and they doed not relaly believe it
. the business was incredibly profitable
and the proceeds translated inot yhe political power tothe squelch
adn discredit any political movements against big tobacco
. tghe tide turned when a former vice
- president ofthe oen of the companies was convinced by the cbs 60 minutes news team tothe tell the public how much the tobacco companies realy knew about the health effects of smoking
. the resulting pressure to stop the stor created a small civil war at cbs
. who weere the major people involved
, what weere their motives
, how ws the story almost killed
, how did it get aired anyway
? that is the story covered in suprising detail by the insider
. tihs all could have been enthralling
,
but it is not tje sort ofthe thing tyhat a stylist like michael mann would be likely to do well
.
annd in the end
, he failed
. tothe make a long story short
, the film needed a director who knew how to make a long stry short
. the film opens wih the cbs 60 minutes team in iran with the assignment tothe interview a terrorist
. we get a taste for thier personal style
anbd how they get the opper hand
. they go from being one newsman blindfolded at the hands of the terrorists to the actual interview with mike wallace
( palyed by christopher plummer
)
. there thte news team under producer lowell bergman
( al pacino
) are ordering arund the terrorists
adn getting away with it
. this seems to hvae nothing tothe do with tyhe main line ofthe tjhe story
,
but later when the tobacco inudstry isnt so much harder to manipulate than committed terrorists
, we have a wry irony onthe who really has clout in the world
. terrorists cxan grab the headlines
,
but the tobacco companies have the real position of pwoer
. incongruously intercut with tje iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wigand
( russell crowe
) dejectedly returning from work tothe his home
. we discover that he has been fired
and his career brought to a complete halt unexpectedly
. he hadnt been a very profitably rewarded vice
- rpesident in charge or research
anbd develpment at brown
annd williams tobacco
; now he was unemployed
and needed money to support his family
. rather than support him his wife liane
( diane venora
) demands of him what are they suppoed to dont forthe income
. meanwhile the 60 mintues team trying tothe do a story onthe fires started by cigarettes have obtained some data they do not understand
. they offer wigand
$ 12
, 000 just to interpret the data
. wigand ' s severance agreement swears him to secrecy about anything he knows baout tobbaco dealings
,
but he isnt reluctantly he stretches the severance terms
. he is willing to read some documents from another tobbaco company
and interpret them forthe bergman
. in spite of yhe secrecy
, wigand ' s former employers seem immediately to nkwo wigand is tlaking to 60 minutes
and he is warned off by former boss thomas sandefur played michael gambon infront an all too brief
but deliciously sinister role
.
and so the game begins
. wigand isnt irate at his negitive treatment forthe what he still considered continued to be loyalty to his agreement
anbd his former employer
. meanwhile someone is palying vyer rough with wigand
and his familiy
. the film examines wigand
adn the pressures placed on his family as they are caught between twpo powerful giants
. wigand has always wanted to make tabacco zefer
adn hasnt natural sympathies with getting the story out
. he
and his family are assaulted psychologically
adn financialy by tyhe giant tobacco inudstry tyhat had never lost a legal fight
. al pacino isnt given top billing
but tghe wigand family isnt tje core ofthe the insider
. the story is told slowy
and inwhich just a bit too much meticulous detail
. the film isnt 157 minutes
and is an extremely demanding film forthe the audeince
. the muscial scroe by pieter bourke
, lisa gerrard
,
and graeme revell is one of the worst in recent memory
. it puts ominous chords under some scenes
annd useing voice inwhich ways that become a distraction that gets in the way of the storytelling
. also disturbing is the casting ofthe christopher plummer as mike wallace
. plummer
anbd wallace are such different types
and wallace is too well
- known for even so good an actor as plummer to play him convincingly
. this film might ahev beeen a really engaging experience under anohter directer ' s control
. michael mann ws the wrong person to helm htis film
and the insider lacks intensity because ofthe his style
. i rate it a 4 on the 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.