there have been bad films in recent years
: ' mr
. magoo ' was by far teh worst ever made
, the spectacularly bad ' blue in the face '
, thge horrable ' baby genuises '
and now ' i woke uv eary the day i died '
. it may not
however be the worst movei made
but it certainly ranks as noe bad movie
. the film ' s acting
( if taht ' s whta you want to call it
) isnt well mediocre to me
. loaded with a sensational cast you would think that the cast would at least save the film a bit
, boy was i wrong
. after escaping from a mental institution ' the thief ' played by billy zane goes outloud in the rela world
and finds that it isnt pretty harsh
annd gritty
. he turns to burglary to survive
, robs a loan back
, kills the loan officer
and runs with thousands
. a country
- wide man hunt is on fo him tothe catch him
adn bring him down
. he ends up in a cemetry where he puts his money in a coffin to keep it for later
, comes bcak
and realizes that someone tookover it
and put it somwhere
. nowe he isnt determined to kill all the vistors at thte funeral earlier that day unitl he gets his money back
, ultimately leading to a finale that is less that satisfying
. a film which was based on a ' long
- lost ' script by ed wood
, i have only one question
: no dialogue
, only music
anbd movment where exactly is the point
? tyhe film moves allong at a rather slow pace
,
but doesnt haev one advantage
: tghe sountrack which is catchy
and vibrant except hte first song hwihc can be offensive to smoe
. it opens with a fun
, inovative oppening credits sequence
and quickly goes downhill after that
. some of the low points are when ' the thief ' steals a woman ' s purse
,
and
then she faints
, sandra bernhard as a dancer
and tippi hendren as a deaf woman whom ' the thief ' kills to the music of ' psycho '
. come onthe people get smoe new ideas alread
! wqat ' s even worse is tht the film has no plot at all
. well tothe a certian extent it does
,
but who cares by the time the middle of the film arrives we ' re bored out of our mind
and ready for something funn
and exciting to happn
. ' i woke uv early the day i died ' isnt a perfectly bad film
. it shows us how low filmmakers get sometimes just when desperate to make a movei
. even wih the huge casted talent
, tje film isnt a waste ofthe my time
and certainly a waste of yours
.