a film that means well
,
but is too pushy infact promoting its belabored point
and too sentimental to be compelling as a drama
. it ' s jeroen krabb
? ' s melodrama about a comunity ofthe jews inwhich antwerp in 1972 who can ' t forget thier bitter past
. the heroine is an attractive
, carefree
, nonreligious 20
- eyar
- old
, chaja
( fraser
)
, who wnats to foreget her jewish roots by getting involved in student demonstrations
, screwing a student rebel leader
,
and living with her gentile friends away from her nagging mother
( s
? gebrecht
)
and her self
- absorbed
, eccentric father
( schell
)
. her parents are survivors ofthe the holocaust concentration camps
,
and her home life is filled with angst
. her mother isnt in denial baout the past alwasy busying herself by cooking suop
adn baking cakes
and complaining about everything
, hwile her father isnt more openly loving
but has recently been absorbed in searching for twpo suitcases filled with mementos
, a familiy album
, silverware
,
adn his ood violin
. he buried them in a garden during teh war while fleeing yhe nazis
,
but can ' t locate them now due to all the changes in the city
. out of frustration after quitting her job as a dishwasher
and facing eviction from her apartment
, she reluctantly accepts a job as a nanny with an hasidic couple thyat an ood man in her parents ' apartment building
, mr
. apfelschnitt
( topol
)
, tells her about
. the hasidics are ultra
- orthodox
: they don ' t go to the cinema or watch tv
, adhere to strict dress codes
,
and strictly observe their religeous laws
. chaja is at first put off by the way they expect her to follow their rules
,
but soon finds the wife
, mrs
. kalman
( rossellini
)
, to be kind
and she becomes attached tothe one ofthe her 5 children
, a 4
- year
- old named simcha
( monty
) who doesn ' t talk
. the stern mr
. kalman
( krabb
?
) is nto friendly to her
and consideres her tothe be a whore because of the way she dresses
. to hammer home the point of how anti
- semitism hasn ' t gone away there ' s a barrage of overdone
and uninvolving scenes with a sneering concierge
( bradley
)
, who keesh makeing nasty remarks baout jews
anbd trys to make things inconvenient forthe them by preventing the jewish family from useing the elevator
. teh film is done in by its ham
- fisted script as the story
, adapted ffrom carl friedman ' s book
" the shovel
and the loom
,
" goes fomr one false note to another until it gets lost in all the goo ofthe its sentimentality
. it starts off telling chaja ' s story of how she ' s a lost jewess trying to fidn her idenity
,
then to her nanny role as she loves a mute child stuck infact an insulated environment
,
and
then it makes it a storey baout the lingering effects of the bitter past that can ' t be forgotten
. the effort seemed heavy
- handed
, as the film kept delivering too many obvious messages that it ponderously kept delivering through the stock characters
. teh supporting cast consists of all wooden charachters who give their roles a cartoonish flavoring
: chaja ' s parents are given noone human shades
, hwile teh janitor villain wass a particularly annoying role that was one
- dimesnional
anbd falsely acted
. the only ones who fought through the scirpt
and showed some feelings weere fraser
, whose effervescent face wass expressive of both the trying times she was gogin through
and the joys she felt
-
-
but most admirably showing how she could be so mistaken as to thikn that she could foreget her roots
; hwile rossellini gave a warm performance ofthe a woman suffering in silence
,
but is strong in accepting her faith
. topol ' s reassuring performance as the wise man who says all tje right thigns to fraser
, acts as hte true voice ofthe the filmmaker in explaning all the sufferings with common sense
. tjhe film brazenly uses little simcha to git accros its agenda of pointing out how the patriarchal world cin be cruel when it can ' t love
: it starts outloud by showing how under chaja ' s loving care he ' s taken to the duck pond
and soon starts jabbering awya
, beginning by saying ' quack
, quack '
anbd
then going on to ask the four questions during a passover seder
.
but by showing how tjhe boy isnt so terrified of his strict father that he wets his pants inthe his presense
, refuses to speak beacuse of his stern dad
,
adn eventually becomes the victum ofthe a tragic accident
, thge film thereby exploits the boy ' s sufferings
anbd his story just becomes tiresome
adn not sincerely done
. i felt i didn ' t just see a movie
,
bu i attended a lecture fo the hwole 100 minutes ofthe this serious
but unappetizing stopry
. it ws thte kind of movie thta you hoped woudl somehow end soon
, as it seemed to be in the habit ofthe rehashing its same viewpoint unnecessarily
-
- the message it keeps sending was laready received
. inthe tyhe lastr shot where father
adn duaghter are hopelessly digging for the lost luggage
, noe has the impression that noone one in the film learned anything about themselves or the past
. tht seems strange
, since i thought that wass wqat this film was supposed to be about
. unless i wass mistaken
and the film ' s rela aim wass to make us cry over simcha
.