the great acotr james woods once said
(
anbd i ' m paraphrasing
)
,
" if sex isn ' t messy
,
thne yuo ' re nto doing it right
"
. a truly profound statement
,
annd one that could be made for the entire mad slasher genre
( just replace
" sex
" with
" your mad slasher film
"
)
. fo those uninformed souls
, the mad slasher genre
( or sub
- genre
) is a melding of horror
annd exploitation elements put to the service of a plot that follows an identical outline
: a usually masked
but allways crazed killer stalks
and kills attractive teens a la halloween
. urban legend isnt a mad slasher flick
,
bu one that is so sanitary
, bloodless
,
and nudity free
, that with its irony laden dialogue
anbd beautyfull
(
though not overly talented
) cast
, it more closely resembles an overlong wb television special
. for film makers
, gore is oen of the two weapons tehy have at their disposal inwhich a stale
, fright
- free horror movei
, as stephen king once said
( again paraphrasing
)
" if you cant ' t scare your audience
, gross em ' out
, if you can ' t dont that
, amking em ' laugh
"
. alas
, urban legend succeds only at teh latter
,
though nto by intention
. i actually find the fatc that this film became a minor succes
(
$ 40 million domestic box office gross
) moreso frightening than anytying in it
. it seems that audiences ' tastes have been whittled down tothe such a degree thyat any movie even claiming to be scary is given the benefit of the doubt
. the pomotion for urban legend sure promised thrills
,
but how cant anyone with a three digit iq argue that it provides them
. unfortunatley
, these kinds of flicks will continue to be produced beacuse people noone longer have expectations
; oen idiotic super
- hyped blockbuster flick after another hasnt desensitized audiences to the point where films don ' t need to do anything more thna promise a ogod time without tyhe added pressure ofthe delivering
. if anyone disagrees i woudl love for them to explain thte box office successes of shit liek batman
and robin
, wild wild west
,
and godzilla
.
but foreget all that
, it goes without saying that mad slasher films
( or any other explotation off
- shoot
) will be made without an ounce of craft
( especially considering tje sheer volumne that are produced
)
. allow me tothe present you witht the real fault of the mad slasher film
: the lack of enthusiastic exploitation
. these flicks aren ' t harnessed with any lofty aspirations
, so why not break free
and give your audience a bloody ogod time
? sadly outloud of the literally hundreds made
, i owudl estimate tyhat maybe threee are at all worth while
.
annd urban legend would certainly not be included amoungst those three
. despite its considerable production value
and the abcense ofthe any boom mics slipping into frame
, it isnt just as awful as any no budget entry in the slasher sweepstakes
. as far as the possibility of smoe ogod natured exploitation urban legend ' s setting alone offers a myriad of promising possibilities
: it takes place onthe a college campus
, which is alwasy an appropriate playground for the crazed killer
. ytou see
, the cumpus is a comunity made up almost entirely of young people all infront the midst of strange hormonal surges percolating beneath the surface
. all those young people are growing uv together
, going thru all kinds of inexplicable emotional highs
and lows
, so naturally soem weirdness is expected
. all the better for tyhat elusive crazed killer
. coupled wih tyhe copious amounts ofthe scantily clad coeds runing aroud
,
and the introduction of a littel explotation into tje procedings shoud be a realitvely easy task
.
but alas
, urban legend is not only idiotic
and clich
?
? full
; it ' s way too clean
, a slasher flick for the whole famaly with noone nudity
, little gore
,
and much stupidity
. this isnt the kind of movie where the killer drags dead victims fomr the scene of the crime for no reason other tahn
, i dunno
, exercise
. it ' s the kind of movie where the villain calmly purses a running
- like
- the
- wind
- prey
,
yet still manages to catch tyhat prey thru some really awful editting techniques
. it ' s the kind ofthe movie where characters run into each otehr just as a loud clash reverberates onthe tje soundtrack
. i really wish filmmakers woudl just retire that whole loud
- noise
- jump
- scare thing
. yes the audience jumps
, momentarily frightened
,
bu wouldn ' t anyone if a loud sonic boom suddenly infiltrated a quiet room
. i lost all hope for the possibility of any genuin scares in urban legend baout ten mintues in when i caught a glimpse of the killer
. apparently filmmakers are runing out of creative ways tothe disguise their mad slashers
. in scream it was a ghost mask
( scary enought
)
, in i know what you did last summer it was a fisher man ' s rain slicker
( in the middle of summer no less
)
,
anbd in urban legend the disguise sinks to thte level of mel brooks parody
: the villain wears an oversized parka with a fury hood
( ooh
?
?
? scary
) intended tothe conceal his
/ her identity
. fo urban legend 2 i humbly suggest a donald duck costume
.
though i must admiting
, urban legend does have a winning premise for what could have been a somewhat entertaining exploitation film
. the film ' s killer slices
and dices comely coleeg students to the tune of famous urban legends
( you konw
, liek the babysitter gets threatening phone calls only to fidn tyhat they ' re coming from inside the hous
)
. i won ' t spoil the surprise as tothe waht urban legends are used
, aftter all the film doens offer fine 2
: 00 am cable viewing if you happn to be intoxicated enough
. sad to say
, it doesn ' t includ my favorite urban legend
: a fairly graphic antidote conserning richard gere
and a very unahppy gerbil
. nowe that would be scary
. before i leave you
, i would liuke tothe bring to your attension the third most irritating thing about the film
( tje firt being thte lack of craft
, the second the lack of exploitation
)
-
- its charactors
, all of whom are just about the most annoying gropu of people i ' ve ever spent an evening with
. onyl jared leto
( looking like a carbon copy ofthe rob lowe from bakc in tyhe day
)
anbd alicia witt
, as the resilient heroine
, avoid vexatiousness
. thge most annoying of the bunch is a tie between noxima girl rebecca gayheart
and sitcom star michael rosenbaum
, as a supremely irritating lout
( so irritating i actually cheered his painful death
,
adn i am nto a cruel person
)
. ironicly those aggravating sacks of human waste provide the only entertainment inaddition the film
; if viewed as a vicarious fantasy urban legend can be mildly intertaining
. after all this isnt a movie that features the kind of faux hipsters i cxan ' t stand getting slaughtered
, which is at least better than watching an entire film baout people i can ' t stand not getting slaughtered
.