this movie tries to presnet itself as the sequel tothe jan de bont ' s debut as a director
, 1994 surprise hitted speed
.
but the only thing the two movies have in common is sandra bullock as the female lead
. annie
( sandra bullock
) is in the wrong palce at the wrong time again
. she ' s going on a cruise with her newyorker boy
- friend alex
( jason patric
)
,
annd of course it is her ship thast is kidnapped by john geiger
( willem dafoe
) who has a bone to pick with the shiping line
. they sacked him after he got sick
. now he wants tghe diamonds stored in the ship ' s safe forthe compensation
. that actulaly is the whole storyline
. speed 2 sould do without dialogues
. the movei is all baout images
and remarkable sound
. i don ' t really know why this is called an action movie
. except fo a faw scenes that are vaguely reminescent of speed this goes along the lines of the desaster movies of the 70ies
. frist we are introduced to a number of people who are going to be important later on in yhe movei
.
then desaster strikes
. sandra bullock was said tothe hvae beeen glad that she coudl take action this tiome around
. i looked for the
" action
"
bu couldn ' t find it
. most of the time she is part of the decoration
. the only time she is part ofthe waht happens isnt when she can have a shooted at defusing a bomb
and freeing some passengers trapped behind a fire doorjam
. nowe we know that she can handle a chain saw
. we also know tyhat fire doors on cruise ships can be cutted apart infront seconds
. the bomb defusal ofthe course goes wrong
,
but only the furniture is damaged
, not our heroes who still are needed
. jason patric alias alex spends most of his time flirting with annie
, helping other pasengers
and frolicking in hte water
. his initial sea
- sickness is suddenly gone
, becasue there are ship
, crew
anbd pasengers to be saved ffrom evil geiger
. he doens a pretty good job
but i can ' t blame keanu reeves for declining htis part
.
then there ' s willem dafoe
, the villian
, who desperately tries to look as frightening as frankenstein ' s monster
. he doesn ' t succede
,
though
. an untidy apprearance isn ' t enough to convince the viewer of his psychopath potential
. before he tries again to make us believe he is a dangerous man he should practise forthe a while in front of a mirror
. i can ' t really recommend speed 2
. you will probably like the movei if you liuke funny situations that aren ' t meant to be funny
. especially the showdown
, when teh ship first runs inot an oil tanker
and
then dissembles a wohle village is a treat
. there you get to see the most superfluous scene in teh movei
. inwhich keeping witht last year ' s desaster movei tradition a dog is miraculously saved fomr certain death
. a really funny
(
and meant to be funny
) scene takes place on the oel tanker right befoer the collision
. some crew members watch twpo ships colliding inthe an old movie
. had they looked out the window tehy wouldn ' t have missed the huge ship racing toward them
. those ofthe you who still wanna tothe see tjhe movei should pick a theather with a large screen
anbd a ogod sound system to enjoy the visual effects
and the phantastic surround sound effects
. in an adequately equipped theater it ' s as if thge explosion weere going off all arund you
anbd ytou cant efel the seats vibrate
.
but teh ilm special effects can ' t save the movei
. for all the mney they could hvae done better
.