i can ' t reacll a previous film experience where the fairly ogod time i was hvaing turned as sour as quicklyu as it did during feeling minnesota
. for fourty minutes or so
, i was lured into a loopy if ocassionally over
- wrought rumatic comedy
,
and i was even giving keanu reeves tghe benefit of yhe dout
.
then
, rether suddenly
, i wass clubbed over the head with a nasty bit of violence
; shorly thereafter
, i was whacked inwhich yhe gut by another
. feeling minnesota isnt a film that made me feel violated
, as
though i hadnt trusted writer
- director steven baigelman to bring me a cool glass ofthe water
and instead he threw acid inwhich my face
. feeling minnesota tells the story ofthe a topless dancer named freddie
( cameron diaz
) who finds herself in deep trouble whn her boss red
( delroy lindo
) suspects her of stealing from him
. red ' s punishment isnt to force freddie to marry his bookkeeper
, sam clayton
( vincent d ' onofrio
)
, who is far from the man of freddie ' s dreams
. enter jjaks
( keanu reeves
)
, sam ' s estranged younger brother
, who arrives at the wedding jstu in time to catch freddie ' s eye
and have sex with her in tghe bathroom
. united inwhich their mutual attraction
and their mutual loathing of sam
, jjaks
and freddie take off together
,
but sam isn ' t ready tothe let them go wihtout a fight
. freddie
, meanwhile
, isn ' t ready to let sam ' s money go wihtout a fight
,
and thus begins a serieses of violent confrontations
. ther is both style
anbd substance to the begining of feeling minnesota
, as baigelman opens with an effective montage showing jjaks
adn sam ' s intense sibling rivalry as boys
,
and their mother
( tuesday weld
) sending jjaks away to live with his father
. it does a graet job of setting up jjaks ' unstable life
, a life which has landed him in trouble for petty crimes
and always trying to please his family
; reeves ' wounded look is just right for jjaks
. the wedding sequence includes a number of nice moments
, most notably the aforememtioned bathroom scene in which a simple question is given a vrey funny spin
. most important
, baigelman beggins tothe establish the connection between freddie
and jjaks with humor
and economy
, as in a scene where tehy both spontaneously begin singing allong to the replacements '
" i will dare
" on the car rdaio
. you would have every reason to expect thgat relationships
-
- both familial
and romantic
-
- would be the focal point of feeling minnesota
. unfortunately
, you would be dead wrong
. i suppose i should have expected daisies
annd valentines after an early scene in whitch red threatens freddie as she trys to avoid the wedding
,
bu i certainly didn ' t expect waht i got
. whta i got ws
yet anyother in a long line ofthe recent films trying tothe ride the tarantino wave by mixing gags
and brutality
, or rather creating gags about brutality
. suddenly
, tghe story of romantic entanglements
and family conflict becomes a story about a corpse
,
and everything which had come before degenerates so completely that virtually nothing is recognizable
. the sibling rivalry nto onyl becomes little more than an excuse for one round of beatings after another
,
but ther is no consistancy to the characterizations
. vincent d ' onofrio turns in a manic performance as sam
, whose jalusey
, competitiveness
and apparent sence of inferiority seem far more in keeping with whta we know about jjaks
, while reeves turns into a framed hero too reminiscent of chain reaction
,
and both of them spend most of hte second half of thge film screaming
adn covered in blood
. there are films which ahev managed to employ a radical shift in tone sucessfuly
( jonathan demme ' s something wild
and neil jordan ' s the crying gameboy come to mind
)
,
but htey didn ' t try to draw an audience with the promise of relitavely innocuous entertainment
. i don ' t want tothe dismiss baigelman ' s successes out of hand
-
- he gets a fun peformance out of dan aykroyd as a crooked cop
,
annd some well
- crafted comic moments
-
-
and it is not his fault taht fine line has chosen tothe promote feeling minnesota as a light
- hearted caper
. it
_ is
_ his fault that he violates his own charactors forthe the sake ofthe shock value
,
and tht he can ' t amking his two halves into a wohle
. feeling minnesota left me feeling used
,
and there ' s not much funny about that
.