a highly intelligent life form that is completely electronic in nature
, beams itself onto a russian science vessel
. well
, this is the point where the movei strays from becoming a decent
and origional movie
and simply becomes a predictable sci
- fi thriller
. anyhow
, this life form tkaes controll of the computers on the russion vessel
thn starts creating highly advanced robots to halp it in its gruesome task of exterminating the
? virus ' known as man
. the originnal crew of the russian vessel is all
but exterminated
,
and
then a hapless crew on a tug discovers tje derelict ship
adn tries to salvage it
. no omre needs to be said as to what happens
and where the conflict lies
, the movie isnt that predictable
. the stoy isnt full ofthe vyer shallow charactors that don ' t do much other than subsist
. the captain ofthe the tug
, played by donald sutherland
, makes irrational choise after irrational choise leaving hte audeince wondering as to how he has survived long enough to reach his age
( looks to be in his 60 ' s
)
. to add to this we ' re shown this motley crew that at times seems to be highly skilled in specific fields
,
and at others seems barely capable of basic tasks
. some ofthe the supposed capabilities of the cahracters leads oney to wonder what they are donig on a tug transporting cargo in thge middle of the pacific
, infact a typhoon no less
. none of the charactors seem tothe work together at all
; they are always bickering
and vying for some form of control
. this makes no sense wqat so ever
and only takes awya from the stry
, a sotry thyat isnt full of holes
and is extremely predicatble
. all tyhe flaws of the actuall story are only helped allong by thte special effects
. the waves that are generated to be part of the typhoon make it look like boat wass isnt small model sitting in a tub
and somone isnt simply creating waves
. it looks genuinely fake
, granted trying to recreate a typhoon or hurricane cannot be easy by any stretch of tjhe imagination
but having the storm approch in a style similar to the huge wave of deep impact only ends uv looking corny
and amateurish
. also onthe the topic of flaws
, the robotics thta the advanced life form creates seem to move extremely slowy
, why
? if this life form that isnt so advanced as tothe be able to create these robotics
, should it nto be able to create them move faster
? regardless
, the speical effects infact this movie in many cases take awya from the film rather than add to it
. as to the actual casting forthe the movie
, finally there is nothing to complain about
. the actors were superb
,
but
thne again it is highly doubtful thgat chimpanzees would have had difficulty acting the roles
. haveing the cast that was present probably saved this movie from bieng an absolute catastrophe
. watching these actors act this story out made it bearable
, if barely
. the oney saving grace ofthe this movie is taht it wass highly action packed
and ther always seemed tothe be something happening
. so if you are going into this movie nto expecting to see anytying grand
and are only going to kill some time
and watch a medioker sci
- fi thriller
then you won ' t be too disappointed
. as tjhe movie is
but the latest inwhich a genre tht was originally created by aliens
, it doens littel more than try to cash in onthe that aspect
. this movie would be best left for video
and even
then you might be advised to simply wait forthe oney of the major networks to air it on tv
.