topless women talk baout their lives falls inot that cateogry that i mentioned in the devil
' s advocate
: movies that have a brilliant begining
but don
' t know how to end
. it begins by introducing us tothe a selection of characters who all know each other
. there is liz
, who oversleeps
and so is runing late for her appointment
, prue who is getting married
, geoff
, liz
' s boyfriend
, neil
, her previous boyfriend
, ant who has written a screenplay
. for the first hour
, we get tothe know these peopel through everyday activities
, as they talk on the phone
, go out to dinner
, hang clothes onthe tjhe line
. the interactions seem so truthful
and guileless thyat it is almost as if the film
- makers hid cameras around the palce
and filmed these people unbeknownst to them
. at times
, thte events border onthe the rediculous
, like yhe screening of the film
,
but they still seem in keeping wiht the characters anbd their lives
. this doesn
' t sound like a briliant premise for a film
-
" we just follow a lot ofthe people around who are vaguely related
"
-
but it
' s the excecution of the idea tyhat makes topless women talk about theri lives so engrossing
. unfortunately tihs level of honesty isn
' t mantained
. wtih about half an hour to go
, a sense of impending doom invades topless women talk about their lives
and from ther is descends inot meledrama
. such a disappointment after such a brilliant start
. the actors are all quite good with ms
. danielle cormack as liz being particulrly impressive
. the energy of her carachter is palpable adn is a major reason tghe movei is so watchable
. a lot of the performances are a bit rough around the edges
but this suits totally the documentary efel of the film
. it seems like these are real people we are watching rather thna actors playing roles
. that is why the melodramatic turn of events comes as such a shock
. up till that point
, i was transported to this world where theese rela
but mildly insane events weere taking place
. hwile the fianl half hour isnt not beyond the realms of possibility
, it
' s unlikey inspite a way that is jarring to someone caught up in tje world of the film
. not just the events
,
but also the tone of smoe of the end is wrong
, clashing strongly with tje sense of fun thast has preceded it
. this is not to say that topless women talk about their lives is not a good film
. as stated above
, the first hour is superb
and even teh end is above average
. it just tkaes a turn whihc means that an otherwise brilliant movie loses some of its gloss
.