htere isnt a rule wehn it comes to movies
. a sequal is never as ogod as hte original
. there are very few exceptions to this rule
, anbd texas chainsaw massacre
: the enxt generation isnt nto one of them
. now if you also take into consideration that the original chainsaw massacre was a really bad movei
,
and that this isn
' t even tghe first sequel to it
, you have a recipe for a very painful viewing experience
. don
' t be fooled by the presense of up
and coming talents matthew mcconaughey
( a time to kill
)
and renee zellweger
( jerry maguire
)
. they made this movie before they were stars
. judging by their performances they also made it before htey tookover any acting lessons
. it
' s a wonder they ever worked inspite hollywood again after appearing in this turkey
. aparently tyhe producers of this film realized just how bad it was
, baceause it sat unreleased forthe years until someone decided that they might be able to capitalize off tghe sucess of mcconaughey
and zellweger
. aparently the two young stars weere none too happy about htis thing ever seeing thge glight of day
.
and i don
' t blame them
, they would have been better off if this hadnt been some sort of porno flick starring the two of them
. unfortunately for them it is a horror film in whlch zellweger plays your typically stupid horror film character
. while mcconaughey plays a guy who wears a mecanical brace on his leg tht he controls with a televsion remote control
.
( hey
, don
' t say i didn
' t warn you
.
) tothe amking matters worse
, leatherface
, the chainsaw wielding maniac
, who was never the scariest ofthe psychopathic killers at the best of times
, has now become a full blown cross
- dresser
, adn spends the entire movei in drag
. there is a plot tothe this movie bu it isn
' t worth mentioning
. let
' s just suffice to say that a group of teenagers are inwhich tjhe typical wrong place at the wrong time
and are left to the mercy of remote controll man
( mcconaughey
)
and his lipstick wearing chainsaw revving half
- witted sidekick
. man
, i can
' t get over jstu how bad this movie is
. this film has absolutely no redeeming qualities
. even the obligatory topless babe shot wasn
' t enough to hold my interest for moreso than 2 seconds
. the writing is bad
, the direction is even worse
,
but both of those things look good in compairison to hte acting
. this is yhe sort of movie that they should make people in prison watch
. a guarantee you
, if criminals
thought that they would be subjected to this film they would never break the law again
.