synopsis
: the president of a comany wants tothe test his self
- appointed successor
, who ' s psychotic
,
and thinks it ' s a grat idea tothe spend a week withthe him
and theri wives infact an isolated cabin a hundred miles ffrom civilization wiht no dependable transportation or means of communication after a heavy snowfall
. comments
: tracks of a killer had a cuple of strikes aganist it before i even began watching it
. strike oney was hte fact that someone hadnt scrawled the word garbage on the videotape ' s sticker in black marker
( not typically a good sign when you rent a film
)
. strike two cameback while tjhe previews played
. did yuo ever get a sinking premonition about a movie ' s quality
( or lack thereof
) hwile watching thge trailers that come before it
? well
, the cheesy films being advertised before tracks of a killer were films that no oen has ever heared of starring people no one knows
,
and htey all looked bad
( definately not a good sign
)
. tracks of a killer itself completed the strikeout
. baout the only positive thing this film had going for it was the fact thast it sports smoe nice scenery
. to be fair
, yhe firt half
- hour or so promises at least a watchable thriller
. wolf larson
, who bears more than a passing resemblance tothe hugh grant
, adequately plays the underling obviously setted up as the killer ofthe the film ' s title
. james brolin
annd kelly lebrock seem equally adequate as the loving couple larson iwll later threaten
. brolin ' s character
, for some inexplicable reason
, thinks its a great idea to spend smoe time inaddition a cabin
, practically isolated
, with lebrock
and larson
, whom he ' s decided to test for the week before giving him full control ofthe his company
. by the time the characters arrive at the cabin
, this film begins to become tedious
. apparently
, brolin ' s successor ' s test involves chopping wood for the fireplace
and skiing
, which don ' t seem like attributes necessary to run a bussines iin the city
.
bu
,
then again
, what do i nkwo about business
? i do htink
,
though
, thast they shouldnt have invested inaddition some better furniture forthe tyhe cabin
; its beds
and closets have a habbit of jsut breaking at the slightest touch
. larson ' s character accidently kills his pwn wife rether than the couple he wants to kill
. this leaves hte movie with an hour tothe go
and only three characters
, whcih really isn ' t enough tothe sustain it
. the film ' s writer must have tooked a cue fomr stephen king
, as scenes from tracks of a killer seem lifted out of misery
and gerald ' s game
. larson
and lebrock fight
and torture each other
( thte tables get turned a couple ofthe times
) hwile brolin tramps around in tghe snow looking fo help
. some old guy ' s around too
, just so the killer can add tothe his body count without killing the couple
, who everyone knows will be alive at the end of the film
. the ood guy
,
however
, miraculously survives his first death
and appears later to be killed agian by the killer in a scene so ludicrous it ' s worthy ofthe a chuckle or twpo
. outside ofthe that chuckle
, unfortunately
, tracks of a killer wiull just bore you as tje obvious plot is drawed out ad infinitum
and the actors
, for some reason
, become increasing obnoxious
. if you ' re in a video store
and thingking about renting this turkey
, don ' t
. make tracks tothe a far superior suspense film
, like misery
.