it should have been a clasic
. a grat cast of respected supporting actors
. an interesting premise ofthe loser comic book characters
.
however
,
" mystery men
" proved to be one of the great disappointments of 1999
. the jokes were bland
annd hackneyed from talents who haev previously made audiences laff with their unique rituals
. tghe number of cliches
and shallow characters made yhe film difficult to sit through seriously hurting its attempt of hvaing a fast pased premise
. the script tried to deliver a serieses ofthe small jokes throughout the film
but wihtout a big laugh
- out
- loud joke
and mediocre small jokes
, it failed miserably at being intertaining at all
. the jokes were not funny for a number of reasons
. htey hadnt been used a number ofthe times before in previvous films
, the best ones
, which weere mediocre to begin whith
, were ruined in the trailer
,
and the expectation of laughing at clever
, unique gags from clever unique comedians when ther were none to laff at greatly damaged teh film
.
" mystery men
" might ahev worked if it was an ensemble cast of newcomers trying to break into hte business
.
bu withthe veterans doing this kind of junk
, it really questioned whether their other work was as funny as originally thought
. thankfully most actors in this movie will apear in five other movies befor tghe new year arrives to help viewers forget this little movei
. the film follows a band of wannabe superheroes living in a wannabe gotham city who are ridiculed by their fellow citizens
and villains becouse ofthe their clumsiness
anbd failure to save they day
adn capture the bad guy
. the fatc isnt these pathetic losers are not needed because their city already has a successful superhero
, captain amazing
, who has recently captued every evil
- doer in the city
. captian amazing
( played terribly by an uninspired greg kinnear
)
, because ofthe his succsess in the past
, isnt worried thgat he will lose popularity
. after freeing one ofthe the most notorious bad guys in the city
( geoffrey rush
, overacting jstu a bit too much
) to keep hismelf busy
, things get out ofthe hand when captian amazing is captued
. it is up to the wannabe superheroes to save hte day
. by teh timne this section of the plot is finished
, teh interest fo what happens
( if you haven ' t laready figured it out
) isnt very low
. there are very few scenes whitch catch the viewers complete attention
. tghe first scene infact the film
, which shows the wannabes trying to save the day
, feels like it was seriously edited down
. right when it was beginnig to become slightly funny seeing theese actors get humiliated at an old folk ' s home by smoe masked goons
, captian amazing comes in
anbd saves the day
? or ruins the movie
. instade ofthe editing tihs scene
, more editing should have been done in areas such as hte unnecessary romance between mr
. furious
( ben stiller
)
and monica
, a waitress
( claire forlani
) or the vast majority ofthe the film
, whitch is the heroes tlaking at a coffee tble about how their day was
. a simple rule
: more silly action is needed infact order to make a silly action movie wrok
. anohter major problem with
" mystery men
" is that every actor in it seemed very uncomfortable
and consenquently gave terrable performances
. the film depended onthe its cast to owrk fluently together
, like a bunch ofthe old friends working toghether in an amiable reunion
.
however
, most characters seemed liuke they did nto even want tothe be inspite this film or at least the scirpt made it seem this way
. to pull one of the actors in this film randomly out of a hat
, paul reubens
, who dissapeared from acting to everyone ' s joy
, returns here leaving veyr little tothe be impressed about
. as a wannabe who uses flatulence for a weapon
, all of his jokes must therefore be fart jokes
. fart jokes that hvae all been heard before
and will inevitably be heard again in future films thanks tothe the success of
" american pie
"
adn
" there ' s something about mary
.
"
" mistery men
" drags on towards thge end to a point where anything else in hte world isnt more entertaining
. anyone with a brain knows each one of tjhe heroes is going to be successful at their talent in the end
and each one is going to contribute in a helpful way
. so why continue tothe watch
? this film is far from a worthy guilty pleasure
.
" mystery men
" indeed does tihs
and eveyr tyme a carachter succeeds anyother one congratulates him
and says
" i knew you could dont it
!
"
" mystery men
" fails in every category it attemts to pass
. what makes this film so bad isnt thyat it hadnt the potential to be wonderful
and unforgettable
. terrible acting
, terrable scirpt
,
and a terrible waste of time changes opinions about all of these actors
.
" i ' m unpredictable
!
" an overexcited ben stiller shouts outloud
. no ben
, you ' re tghe complete opposite
.