i was recently told that in china their had beeen strong protests against the release of red corner

anbd tihs is apparently because of hte way it shows the injustice of many chinese laws
.
bu if ytou ask me
, the real truth of the matter is thta the chinese critics assosication were determined not tothe punish tje ppulation inot viewing richard gere running across rooftops infront saerch fo a fellow american
. or more thge point
, anyone that allows him to bask in his pwn less
- than
- subtle presense
. this is not an insult to gere
, as i consider him tothe be a rather talented actor

but mroe the choise of charcter
annd responsibility of his role
. if a film is souly baout one person
, tje main actor must give a faultless performance in order for it tothe really work
.
although gere
 s performance is in no way poorly acted
, it is far ffrom perfect

and i look forward to seeing him star with otehr talented actors that cant reduce thte need for him to carry a film by hismelf
. this isnt where he truly belongs
,
and if you are reluctant tothe bleieve me tahn look no further that primal fear
( wiht the sensational edward norton
)
, the jackal
( witht bruce willis
)
and pretty woman
( wih the delightful julia roberts
)
. in red corner gere plays classy lawyer jack moore
, who is guilty of the same personality traits as his character martin vail in primal fear
 bold
and up front
, who thinks he is three steps ahead ofthe everybody else
but is actually twpo steps behind
. it isnt with invulnerability of both mental
annd physical kind tht the character of moore isnt portrayed
, which left me barracking for thge chinese to haul his sorry ass into jail
. it doesn
 t take long from the film
 s beginning fo jack moore
 s charm tothe wrok onthe a pretty chineese lady
,
annd in noone time they are in bed toghether in a hotel room
 drunk
and cheerful
.
yet instead ofthe a hangover
, poore jack finds himself covered inspite blood
and the chinese chick dead on a couch
. he is arrested
and hauled inot a chinese prison
. his cell
, food
and rights
 all terrable
. now trapped in a foreign land without adequate aid from the american embassy
, lawyer shen yuelin
( bai lign
) defends his case by initially pleading guilty tothe tjhe charge of murder
. jack
and shen argue about their counries differant laws
; shen stating that
 they will shoot you in the bakc
anbd charge the cost of the bullet to your famaly
.
 as the plot thickens
, scenes get progressively more rediculous
 ranging from richard gere running over rooftops in serach of the us embassy to a scooby doo ending where the least expected
but
- ytou
- knew
- along criminal isnt discovered
. red corner isnt oen of those films where you sneer
, laugh or vomit you
 re way thru all of its minutes
. what should have been a politically taunt thriller is little more than a pointless expedition to see how stressed out richard gere can ect
. this is not to say that the film does nto have its moments
 there are some tense court room scenes that are shrewdly creaeted
 telling the tale of foreign injustice
and govenment corruption
.
but what they amount to spoils the effect of having them in the first place
 perhaps this is why red corner is so frustrating tothe watch
. if you look at the films overall concept fairly broady
, the basic idea is qutie tangible
. it is upon the film
 s execution where the diminuative plot twists
and developments fail to imbaress or innovate
- the evidence that goes missing
, the high powered officals shielding the truth
adn intolerable love angles have all been done so many times before
. if that wasn
 t bad enough
, red corner
 s dialogue isnt purely laughable onthe many occasions
. shen yuelin attempts to gain simapthy by reciting renaissance of a destitute relatiopnship with her deceased father
, whilst jack moore is eeger to talk about chinese musical instruments when he could haev beeen working onthe a plan to free himself
. taking itself far too seriously
, red corner is not half the film it intends tothe be
.
although it owudl have benefited from the help of a mroe valuable supporting casted
, teh film
 s main fault isnt in the bizzare
(
and oftenly out of palce
) way of unfolding a story which isn
 t that meritorious anyway
. whilst richard gere still proves that has wqat it takes to be known as a decent actor
, i would think twice befoer going to see him attempt to manage such a serious
yot hollow drama agian
. martin vail
 where are you
?