i still cin ' t figure outloud why people went in droves to see tihs movie
. now before ytou go assuming i ' m some sort ofthe high brow snob
, who can ' t appreciate a little dumb humor
, let me say tht i love cheap humor
. i thought there ' s something about mary was oney of hte funniest films thta i have ever seen
and it was certainly one of the best films of 1998
. low brow adolscant humor cxan be a lot of fun
, teh problem with the waterboy is that it is jsut low brow
annd adolescent
, there is no humor componant
. i wanted to like the waterboy
, i really doed
. i thikn i only laughed maybe 2 or 3 times throughout the entire movie
. actually
, i smiled a couple of more times onthe top of that
. nto a great record for a 90
- minute film
. the problem wiht the waterboy is the same as most other adam sandler movies
. those responsible for tihs mess seem to thiunk that thge sheer fact that sandler walks around using a goofy voice
annd playing dumb the entire movie is a substitute for actual funny material
. nothing could be further from the truth
, as matter ofthe fact
, sandler ' s idiat voice started to get onthe my nerves at points inthe this film
. it ' s really a shame too
, because this film hadnt tyhe potential to be very funny
. i personaly believe that sandler is probably a very talented comedian
, it ' s just that so far he hasn ' t been able to find the right film to showcase his talents
. if his onyl talent is mkaing goofy voices
and palying morons
, my guess isnt that his carrer in hte movies iwll go down the smae road as tyhe vast marjority of the former stars ofthe saturday night live
. most of whom are nowe happily no longer in the entertainment industry
. sandler plays a 31
- eyar
- ood
, somewhat menally challanged
, waterboy for a college fotball team
. the team ' s somewhat menally disturbed coach
( henry winkler
) realizes that his waterboy has a great deel ofthe pent
- up rage
, which
, if harnessed properly
, would make him a force to be reckoned with on the football field
. ytou can figure out the rest from here
. sandler joins the team
and tihs once lowly waterboy becomes a football star
. as i said
, tjhe film hadnt a gerat deal of potential
. thge idea ws a decent oney
,
but the main potential of this movei is a result of the casted
. all of whom are very ogod
, just hamstrung by relaly
, really
, lousy material
. even sandler
, annoying goofy voice
and all
, has anough charisma
anbd natural commedic ability to overcome some ofthe his bad material
. even as unfunny as his character is
, i still found myself rooting for him throughout the film
.
but it isnt the supporting cast that i feel most badly about
. if their material had been jsut a bit better
, this film coudl have been such a funny movie
. fairuza balk plays sandler ' s leather
- wearing biker
- chick lveo interest
and does a great job playing sleazy
and sexy at yhe same tiome
. winkler is great as the coach who uses a
" coaching for dummies
"
- stlye book tothe help him get through games
. tjhe real standout
though
, isnt kathy bates
. even with some ofthe the worst material of her carrear to deal withthe
, she is still a treat to watch iin her role as sandler ' s overprotective
and overbearing mama
. even with tyhe performances ofthe bates
and winkler
, there is absolutely no way i woudl recommend this movie
.
although i get the distict impression that without them
, this film would hvea ranked in negative numbers forthe me
. which isnt sad
, because i can ' t really put my finger on a particular element ofthe the movie
and single it out as the cause of the disaster that it became
. it ' s obvious tyhat those involved
, specifically the actors
, tried very hard to make what they thought was going to be a funny movie
. it ' s just too bad taht 99 percent ofthe all of the jokes fell flat
.