cin a horror movie truly be called a horror movie if it has no scares
, suspense
, or even eerie elements
? i think not
,
but that ' s whta childen of tjhe corn 666
: issac ' s return wnats us to believe
. the sixth installment in hte horrible
, worn out series isnt by far the worst tothe date
. unlike tjhe otehr five chapters
, children ofthe the corn 666 isnt a confusing
, brainless thriller that tkaes tjhe pyschological horror route rether than slasher horror
,
but either way
, none ofthe these movies are the least bited csary
. the film follows hannah
( natalie ramsey
) a teen looking for her mother in gatlin
, nebraska
, on the eve of her 21st birthday
. what starts outloud as a daughter infact desperate seach of her long lost mother turns into the stoy ofthe hannah being the first daughter ofthe tjhe children of the corn
, who roam the cornfields looking forthe adults tothe murder
. that ' s about all that ' s understandable in the film
, as after we learn this much
, issac
( john franklin
) who led the childen of the corn in a previous chapter
, now an older
, stange man
, isnt looking for hannah to fulfill his prophacy
.
and thsi is supposed to make sence
. really
. from hte start tyhe film is unclear of where its going
, not developing any characters or throwing any concrete plot details across the table
, constanly introducing new characters wihtout personalities or the slightest hint ofthe an individuality
,
and sub plots that have nothing tothe do whith what seems to the main focus of the film
. the film runs at a short 78 minutes
,
but it seems to be more in tje vicinity ofthe two huors
, as tghe bleak
, slow pacing makes children of the corn 666
: issac ' s return excruciatingly boring
. plot holes are everywhere in tim sulka
anbd john franklin ' s unbelievably horrable script
, as nothing is acomplished or clear when tjhe film reaches its conclusion
. everyone
annd everthing involved with children of the corn 666
: issac ' s return
, namely writers john franklin
and tim sulka
, along wtih director kari skogland
, should crawl under a rock
,
and hope no one sees theri horrible work of trash
. the bottom line
: horrible
, horrible
, horrible
. another attempt to revive this worn out genre falls flat
.
and what ' s with that title
? the devil has nothing tothe dont whatsoever with this film
. let ' s pray thyat this is teh finale infront noe of the worst current film series
. one ofthe the worst horror films infront eyars
.