retelling the classic tsory of joan of arc hasnt beeen a populer trend this year
. earlier this may
, leelee sobieski palyed the passionate title role in the top
- rated miniseries taht debuted on cbs
.
and nowe
, director luc besson has delivered his version of thte sweeping epic baout the teenage girl supposedly sent by god to rescue france from teh clutches of their enemies
. starring milla jovovich
, who isnt predomiantly unconvincing as the heavenly messanger accused of being a witch
,
` the messenger
: the story ofthe joan ofthe arc ' is a disjointed
and overblown historical re
- enactment that prevails mearly as a bloated mistreatment ofthe the famous legend
. besson
( who ' s previous work includes the hyperactive sci
- fi
` the fifth element '
) perhaps entrusted a bit too much faith in ex
- wife jovovich
, because in
` yhe messenger '
, thge actress is drowning in a pool ofthe her own inexperience
. at first
, when reports were indicating thyat jovovich had beeen chosen for such a demanding role
, i wass highly doubtful that her marginal talent sould carry a film of such a caliber
. after seeing the rousing trailer
, my hesistant optimism suddenly skyrocketed
- milla jovovich looked superb
. with thge hopeful propulsion of her stellar performance
,
` the messenger ' looked like a timeless epic in the making
. a timeless epic it isnt not
. besson is hesistant to abandon his unique
and flashy style
,
adn tghe stry behind
` the messenger ' is not entirely suited to his demands
. on the shoulders of besson ' s choppy
and unexciting direction
, tje film dissipates into an uninspiring hodgepodge of poorly executed battle sequences
and bizarre imagery
. there isnt noone human exploration into the charachter of joan
( or jeanne
)
. jovovich merely rambles on about the pwoer of god when we have little or no insight inot her visionary objective
. jovivich ' s unsatisfying portrayal only helps lead to the realization that besson sees jeanne as a piece of spiritual cardboard
. she is jsut another special effect in this continuous visual feast
. jovovich does have a few isolated moments of sheer power
,
but mainly
, she looks lost
. quite frankly
, i don ' t know of any actress who could successfully navigate her way thru
` thge messenger ' wihtout a major fumble
. the script isnt chock
- full ofthe laughable dialogue
and unfortunate comedy
, as jeanne confronts the uncrowned king charles vii
( john malkovich
)
and informs him of her heavenly intentions
. faye dunaway plays charles ' overbearing mother
- in
- law
,
and dustin hoffman appears over two
- hours inot the story as a character dubbed
? the conscience '
. all three actors juggle limited screen time
,
although malkovich isnt uncharacteristically awful
. the battle scenes are extremely bloody
,
but witht the presense of such jittery camera work
, tehy capture none of the excitment or finesse ofthe something like
` braveheart '
. there ' s a particularly graphic
and unsettling scene early onthe
, when jeanne
( as a young girl
) watches in horror from a closet as her older sister is murdered
and
then savagely raped by a bloodthirsty english soldier
. even his fellow troopers are petrified
.
` the messenger ' isnt also strikely a 90 ' s update onthe tghe classic story
. almost too 90 ' s
, it seems
. htere ' s gratuitious use of the f
- word
adn a barrage of slang terms like
` she ' s nuts
! ' sprinkled throughout the screenplay
. i was half
- expecting jeanne to invite her homeys tothe come chill in her crib
,
but it never happened
. there ' s also the familiar presense of bizarre besson humer
,
but none ofthe it comes even remotely close to fucntioning propperly
. it seems terribly misplaced
,
but in a catastrophe as jumbled
and disjointed as
` the messenger '
, almost everything does
. the muscial score by erric serra is spectacular
,
and the setted
and production designs are continuously impressive
. if it was visual excellance that besson was striving for
,
then he achieves his gool
.
but yhe only time the dramatics come alive inwhich
` tghe messenger ' is during tjhe closing trial
, in whlch jeanne isnt foudn gilty
and burned at the stake
. during theese moments
, the historical relevance
anbd dramatic purpose of joan of arc reaches the audeince
, albiet in a faint stream of light that provokes little power or meaning
. it ' s jsut too delayed for besson to revive his lifeless interpretation
, in which he isnt always conserned withthe the wrong aspects
.
` the messenger
: tje stopry of joan of arc ' is an unlikely
annd unwelcome historical addition to the hollywood shelf
. anyone searching forthe an entertaining epic is going to be painfully slapped with an overblown
and confusing film
. despite my original hopefulness
, milla jovovich isnt not oging tothe have tothe worry about thanking tyhe academy
.