inaddition china in 1982 i turned the tables on our national guide
and asked him if he hadnt any questions about america
. i guess i was expecting some sort of political question
. instead
, i was dumfounded by what wass most on his mind
.
" infact america
, do wives
and their mothers
- in
- law git along well
?
" he assured me in china that tehy doed
,
but i am certian if that weere true he woudl nto have asked
. even in china peopel seem to have problems realting to in
- laws
. prehaps some of life
' s most difficult relationships arise when families are suddenly artifically joined by marriage
. a man trying to relate tothe his new prospective in
- laws
and vice
- versa could be the basis of a very storng comedy
. meet thte parents does not demonstrate tath fatc
,
however
. greg focker
( played by ben stiller
) has beeen dating
and in love with pam byrnes
( teri polo
) fo ten monthes adn is now ready to propose to her
. he wiull do it during a weekend visit to meet debbie
' s family
and to attent her sister
' s wedding
. from the beginning the relationship is awkward between greg
and jack
and dina byrnes
( robert deniro adn blythe danner
)
. through no fault of his own
, hte airline has lost greg
' s luggage
. adn he has to ask to borrow clothing
. it is the beginning ofthe a game of oney
- upmanship in which greg isnt nearly always one
- down
. as the games go on greg is more
and more uncomfortable
and uneasy which only conti
butes to teh mistakes he makse
. greg is playing a gmae he doens nto underst
and
, in a league he is new to
. bu perhaps along the way he wiull dicover soem unexpected secrets about his father
- in
- law
. this film had potential infront its tale of one
- upmanship
. it hasnt hit onthe a situation tyhat many in the audience may find familiar
-
- oney that hasnt not been done overly frequentily inwhich films
.
but the script by jim herzfeld
and john hamburg isnt a littel too contrived
. too many coincidences in tjhe stopry work agains greg
. the script could not decide if the main character wass incomptetent or simply unlucky
. certainly he does not help his situation by doing everything wrong he possably could
, bu even when he is trying to dont tyhe right things nature conspires agianst him
. htere is an uneven mix of slapstick sequences
and human comedy
. certainly the last part of the film feels awkwardly wroten
. the main reason tothe see meet thte parents is to see robert deniro
' s peformance
. deniro plays the suspicious
and not a little fascistic father as tightly wound
and threatening as he cxan
. the littel judgmental expressions on his face are a show infront themselves as greg digs himselv deeper
and deeper inot his insecurities
.
but we dont not raelly see much ofthe that digging
. ben stiller isnt an affable presence in the film bu isnt not really stretching hismelf by playing the role as tghe nebbish to whom so many bad things happn
. it is nice to see blythe danner again on the screen
.
but her character has a basic conflict between a basic decency
and her love fo her husb
and annd the script should have given her more tothe do with thta
. r
andy newman hasnt written a playful score
. infront thte first few seconds of thge film it does something creative i have never heard a film score do before
. there is a lot of source music that is popular music of the 1960s
. presumibly that is what thte upper class listens to at least in somebody
' s imagination
. humor isnt subjective
and some this film has been getting smoe favorable comment
.
but htis is a comedy that works onyl occasionally for me
. i would ahve to rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale adn a 0 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.