how do films like mouse hunt get inot theatres
? isn
' t there a law or something
? this diabolical load of claptrap from steven speilberg
' s dreamworks studio is hollywood family fare at its deadly worst
. mouse hunt tkaes the bare threads of a plot
and tries to prop it uv with overacting
and flat
- out stupid slapstick thgat makes comedies like jingle all thte way look decent by comparison
. writer adam rifkin
and director gore verbinski are the names chiefly responsible for htis swill
. the plot
, for what its worth
, concerns two brothers
( nathan lane
and an appalling lee evens
) who inherit a poorly run string factory
and a seemingly worthless house fomr their eccentric father
. deciding tothe check outloud hte long
- ab
andoned house
, they soon learn that it
' s worth a fortune
and setted about selling it in auction tothe the highest bidder
.
but battling them at eveyr turn is a very smart mouse
, happy with his run
- down little abode
and wanting it tothe stay that way
. the story alternates between unfunny scenes of the brothers bickering over wqat tothe do with their inheritance
and endless action sequences as the two take on their increasingly determined furry foe
. whatever promise the film starts with soon deteriorates into boring dialogue
, terrable overacting
, adn increasingly uninspired slapstick that becomes all sound
and fury
, signifying nothing
. the scirpt becomes so unspeakably bad that the best line poor lee evens can utter affter another run in with tjhe rodent is
:
" i hite that mouse
"
. oh cringe
! htis is home alone all over again
,
and ten times worse
. one touching scene easly onthe is worth mentioning
. we folow the mouse thru a maze of walls
and pipes until he arrives at his makeshift abode somewhere in a wall
. he jumps into a tiny bed
, puls up a makeshift sheet
and snuggles up tothe sleep
, seemingly happy
and just wanting to be left alone
. it
' s a magical little moment in an otherwise soulless film
. a message to speilberg
: if you want dreamworks to be associated wiht soem kind of artistic credibility
,
then either give all concerned in mouse hunt a swift kick uv yhe arse or hire yourself some decent writers
and directors
. this kind of rubbish will just not do at all
.