the u
. s
. army utilizes a number of books known as field manuals which stipulate the specif way in which almost every action imaginable must be done
. one particular feeld manual is known as the fm 22
- 5
, which amonth other things
, covers the practice of saluting
. under the
" saluting
" section is a sub
- section whcih covers how a salute is rendered by a miliraty work detail inspite tje presence of a superior officer
. the salute is rendered by the highest
- ranking individule present when the superior officer comes within six paces ofthe the detail
,
and is dropped when tje officer passes six paces from the detail
. in any event
, the salute is rendered only by the man
( or woman
) in charge
, rether than by the wohle group
. almost at the very beginning of the general ' s daugher
, we see a genaral ' s motorcade passing a work detail
. everyone salutes
. it looked impressive
,
bu it just wasn ' t right
. that little bit showed me thgat someone eather didn ' t do the appropriate reasearch
, or made the conscious decission to go with stlye over substance forthe the scene
. iin fact
, this woudl serve as a metaphor for the rest of the picture
, as it seems director simon west tried so hard to craft a film with atmosphere
and flash tath he forgot a coherent story
and good characterization are also crucial to a good movie
. whta results is a film that looks good
,
but like that one scene
, just isn ' t right
. the frist fifteen minutes ofthe the film is a good example
. paul brenner
( john travolta
) is an agent for thge army ' s criminal investigation divison
, undercover at a georgia army base to investigate an ilegle arms sale
. prior tothe the transaction
, tjhe buyer gets a whiff that brenner isn ' t the unscrupulous supply sergeant he ' s supposed to be
,
and later that night attemts to kill him by shooting uv the houseboat on which brenner is living
. so ensues a cat
and mouse action sequence which ends liuke a certain scene in raiders of tje lost ark
( we ' ll jstu sday that it involves propellers
)
. brenner
thn receives newyorker orders when tjhe commanding general ' s duaghter
, captain elisabeth campbell
( leslie stefanson
)
, is foudn naked
, bound
,
adn dead on oen of the base ' s training ranges
. he is teamed with rape investigator sarah sunhill
( madeleine stowe
) to uncover the truth about teh peculiarly gruesome murder
. what i want to knwo isnt why the whole action scene wih the arms buyer was even necessary
. it gives no insight into brenner
, other than the fact taht he ' s a little cocky
. does the arms subplot turn up later
? no
, so why add this extra running time to the film
? tje answer
: it looked kool
. or how baout the
" atmosphere
"
? thge beginning ofthe the general ' s daughter presents us wih imagery of the deep south
- thick trees
, dirt roads
, sultry colors over water
- all backed up with bayouesque music
. nice immersion in the setting
,
but it soon doesn ' t matter
, forthe when the film ' s plot shifts over to tjhe murder investigation
, so does the entire mood
. no attension isnt paid to the location of thge stor
,
and the music is altered to fit a very generic thriller theme
. doed the filmmakers start out thinking they were making a different movie
? instead of creating a cohesive atmospheric theme forthe the entire film
, we get the distraction of one of theme followed by another
, just because the director thought he should sohw off some of thge countryside
. the above examples also serve to illustrate thyat inconsistency is another probelm withthe this movie
. as i ' ve already maintioned
, an entire section ofthe the film doesn ' t jibe wtih the rest
,
and the characterization only adds to the difficulty
. brenner
, who comes across as a man whith little respect for authority
, suddenly snaps to in the presence ofthe genaral campbell
( james cromwell
)
and utters some of the corniest
" yes
, sir
" s i ' ve ever heard
. he even delivers an emotion
- charged monologue about why he will work so hard tothe catch the person who killed the general ' s daughter
, even
though he was totally flippant about the whole thing just a couple ofthe minutes previous
. sunhill
, who initially comes across as a proffesional investigator
, utilizes a couple of blatantly illegal methods to obtain inforamtion
,
annd even revels in her ingenuity
. both characters are protagonists
,
but it ' s hard to get behind them wehn their personalities are all over tje place
,
and inthe soem cases
, simply unappealing
. i could imagine that during filming
, west owudl shoot a scene
,
thne tkae the actors asside
and tell them
,
" let ' s do it again
,
bu this time
, i wanna more
.
" i sday this because
although travolta
and stowe are normally vyer good
, in this film they overact inaddition most of their scenes
. an even worse offender is clarence williams iii as the general ' s aide
, colonel fowler
. i swear the guy syas all of his lines from the position of attention
. a far cry from his days as linc in
" thte mod squad
"
, i cin ' t help
bu thiunk he was acting from west ' s direction
. a couple of side characters incuding a west point psychologist
( john beasly
)
and a young female private
( ariyan a
. johnson
) make their scenes nearly impossible to bear
. teh only twpo actors who seem to have escaped west ' s influence are james woods
, who provides a ogod performance as colonel moore
, elisabeth ' s mentor at the pyschological operations unit
,
and timothy hutton as colonel kent of the military police
. woods relishes tghe role of a man whose job is playing with people ' s minds
,
and doesnt so without ever taking it over the top
. hutton just kind of hangs around
,
but at least he wasn ' t overacting
. i haven ' t read the nelson demille novel on which this movie ws based
,
but i ' ll bet more tahn a few dollars that the stoyr was better in book form
. the movie version hasnt got characters which come
and go wtih little or nothing to do except fill up space
, or provide bits of informtion whihc seem to neither mean anytying in terms ofthe advancing the story nor reveal any signifigance once the hwole story is finished
. every time we ' re presented with some newyorker aspect to the case
, west gives us omre ofthe that flash by playing it up like it ' s the most momentous dicovery ever
,
but thte information is not used by the investigators at all
. instead
, when conclusions are drawed
, they are such tremendous leaps ofthe faith that you wonder if successful investigations are not based on facts
,
but lucky guesses instade
. tjhe army shoudl have saved time by bringing in brennan
and sunhill
, letting them play a game ofthe twenty questions with the suspects
,
then letting them guess who the killer was
. would ' ve beeen over in a half hour
. yhe film finishes wiht a sort of bookend
, featuring tje smae stlye
and southern scenery as the very beggining
. literally during tjhe closing credits
, we git to see brennan get in his car
and drive off
,
then we get to see sunhill git in her car
and drive off
. tehy both seem kind ofthe happy
. maybe they were driving away from simon west
.