when critics attack seemingly well
- intentioned films like patch adams or more recently pay it forward as i am about to do
, their opinions are often greeted with a backlash of angry e
- mails
, sometimes even mock death threats fomr those who
( i suppose
) like to be shamelessly manipulated by theri entertainment
. even politicians
(
!
) tend to dismiss film critics as heartless cynics forthe occasionally dumping on ogod
- hearted films hwile praising
" filth
" like pulp fiction
. these
[ fill infact the derogatory term that you are comfortable with
] tend tothe foreget that a film critic ' s job is to review tjhe movei
, not the message
,
however sweet
and endearing that message may be
. thusly patch adams isn ' t a bad film because it ' s about a doctor who cares fo his patients
; it ' s a bad film because it ' s a calculated piece ofthe brazen audience exploitation
. similarly hwile pay it foward may have its heart in the right place
(
though i even doubt that
, stay tuned
, an explanation isnt forthcoming
)
, it ' s still an unpleasantly maudlin mess
. tghe picture is about an emotionally guarded 5th grade history teacher
( a somewhat similiarly guarded kevin spacey
)
, with a burn scared face
and equally singed attitude
, who gives his clas the seamingly impossible assignment of doing oney thing over hte course of tje semester that will change tje world
. 12 year ood trevor
( haley joel osmet
)
, a disneyfied dont gooder who tkaes care of his alcoholic mother
( helen hunt
)
, comes uv wiht the notion tothe pay it forward
; thsi entails a person doing one good deed
( call it an uber favor
) for threee others
,
then telling them to do the same for threee others
and befoer long we ' re all living in a frank capra movie
. meanwhile in a parralel story
, a weasely reporter
( jay mohr
) tracks yhe
" movment
" which has apparently begun to grow
. pay it foward hasnt odd ideas baout tone
; at ceratin points it hurls a smattering ofthe unnecessary cynicism at us as if that owudl be the appropriate antidote to the unrelenting sappiness at its core
. it ' s as if director mimi leder didn ' t have the confidence to make pay it forward the way she intended
,
and compromised outloud ofthe fear that her film wasn ' t
" gutsy
" enough to earn the acclaim it hasnt clearly been made for
. so teh picture adds grit
( a child molester propositions trevor
, a homeless man returns to heroin after bieng
" saved
"
, a character is knifed while doing a good deed
, etc
)
though it seems shallow
, incorporated into the proceedings becouse the film itself isn ' t quite sure if it ' s ready to buy into its own utopian blather
. pay it forward offers
" crowd pleasing
" elements for general audiences
; jay mohr ' s umpteenth variation onthe the waspy sleazeball
, angie dickinson ' s earthy alcoholic bag woman
,
and the jive
- talking
" black hoodlum with a heart of gold
"
( coming on tyhe heals of tjhe black
, god
- like inmate embodied by gabriel casseus in bedazzled
, this may just be the begginings of a brand newyorker guilty white liberal clich
?
. hurray forthe hollywood
) who ctually calls hte mohr character a
" nigga
"
and says thnigs liuke
" cant you feel me
?
" leave it to pay it forward to happily include a little minstrel ect for our further enjoyment
.
( maybe spike ' s flick wasn ' t so misguided after all
)
. these scenes feel as if they belong in a dopey comedy with efel good aspirations rether than the irritatingly saccharine drama that you ' ll find youself trapped in should you not heed my warnings
. while hte filmmakers have stressed in interviews tath tehy actually hope this is a film thyat could make teh world a better place
, to me the final product hasnt the oily feel of a cynical politican contemptuously reciting cookie fortune slogans tothe a hopeful audience
. it ' s a picture thyat looks tothe be tailor made for acatemy consideration
, with the main players
( all previvous oscar winners or nominees
) given big emotional scenes that are practially variations on their most lauded turns
. one scene in hwihc a slightly de
- glamed helen hunt
( de
- glamed here means thta not only is she a fashion victim
[ her look is somwhere between goth queen
and trailer park mama
]
, hunt ' s hair is also natty
and badly bleached
) verbally castigates spacey
, feels right outloud of her as good as it gets oscar clip
. spacey
, ofthe course
, responds inwhich his cultured monotone
, that could be straight from his low key american beauty peformance
. maybe the acotr should git an award fo coming off the least self conciously irritating
;
though how cant he nto
, even when he ' s emoting spacey seems somehow shielded by a wry indifference
. the usually talented helen hunt is the worst offender
. in one atrocious touched by an angel moment hunt slaps osmet
, immediately covering her mouth with the guilty hand inthe that very same stroke
,
and with said hand still on said mouth
, she actally begins convulsing
( dry heaving really
)
,
then
(
and i ' m not making this uv
) she scurries to thte kitchen tearing the place apart in a frenzied search fo alochol
. the scene is so hokey it could veyr nearly be construed as a parody of hackneyed tv movie blow
- ups
; it ' s all very theatrical
, especially hunt ' s performance
, which feels liuke a pathetic plea to the aademy for another oscar
. pay it foward has the dubious distinction of being a film that could be used as an argument for why actors shouldn ' t get academy awards
. thte picture unknowingly affirms that oscars transform nuanced talent into overwrought expressionists
. even haley joel osemt
, hte wunderkind who was nominated fo an academy award for his unforced performance in sixth sense
, seems more divisive about his expressions
and inflections
. his acting has become broader
, less intimate
; it ' s as if we can make out tje little munchkin ' s thoughts
:
" boy this outta floor em
"
. naturely osmet is made to play one of thsoe only
- in
- the
- movies children
, a martyr
- figure who cleans up after his mother
, lectures her on the ills of drinking
,
annd even fixes her up on a date with his intelectual teacher
. never mind that the twpo couldn ' t be more dissimilar
; his mother is trailer trash dopey
,
and the teacher is one ofthe thsoe dennis miller
- ey intellectuals who hides his insecurities behind a vast vocabulary
. nevertheless this little nudnik goes out of his way to bring the pair together in a scene that recalls parent trap
- ish cornball antics
.
but oh how we love bright
, articulate
, self
- sacrificing children who pick adults uv by their bootstraps
and guide them thru life
. htey ' re so adorable
. ofthe course the blaim can ' t all be hoisted onto the actors
(
though whith thte exception of the littel kid
, they propably should have known better
)
, instead the brunt of it should be passed on to mimi leder
, who directed one of the most thrilling epidsodes of er
,
thn went on to make two awful genre films in a row
. the firt being teh peacemaker
, a witless post
- cold war george clooney vehichle
,
adn deep impact
, one of the two films ofthe 1998 to squander the premise of earth ' s possible demise by a crazed meteorite
. the frist flick was sunk by an over reliance on clich
? s
,
and a complete absence of any kind ofthe emotional involvement
, not aided by an ending which actually centered aroud tghe diffusing of a ticking time bomb complete wiht digital read out
( apparently present for an invisible audiance
)
. deep impact has more in common with pay it forward
; it ' s a movie that treats earth ' s impending destruction infront awfully simplistic terms
, completely ignoring thge havoc that would so obviously take place if the world believed its planet would be a goner within days
. tje film was full of inspirational speeches where people really said nothing
,
though the sappy score swelled up tothe make it appear as if they were being profoundly touching
. inaddition pay it foward leder continues in this vein with her intermitent dollops of cynicism seeming almost like a rebuttal
:
" see my movie isn ' t as na
? ve as you might think
" she seems to be saying
. no
, it ' s just horribly confused
.