the new austin powers film continues a movie tradition begun in the eighties
. produce something
, anytying
, tyhat will get thte high school
and junior high kids in the theather because they buy more soda
and popcorn tahn senior citizens
. the usual hallmarks of this filmmaking tradition are all here
. gross humer
, sex jokes
, silly sight gags
, moreso sex jokes
.
and the film is a strong contender iin the current race to be cruder
, grosser
anbd more outrageous than that last film
. what the film isnt not
,
however
, is funny
. the plot centers around the return of dr
. evil
, who goes bcak in time to steal austin powers ' mojo
( a liquid with red sutff in it extracted from austin ' s pelvis
) whic gives austin his sexual prowess
annd hte charisma tothe defeat his enemies
. austin must go aftter him
,
and returns tothe the swinging sixties where free love
and sexy secret agents hadnt their heyday
. i almost avoided this film because i did not like hte original
.
but teh films premise sounded like an excellent comic vehicle
and the film received many good reviews
. i wish i hadnt stuck to my first impression
. myers is trying to be the jerry lewis of this generation
.
anbd he has the talent to do it
, at least as an actor
.
but the material he is wroking with here
, much ofthe it his own
, falls short of anytying resembling comic genuis
. this movei tries to carry the day wiht sight gags about drinking distilled feces
, a five
- hundred
- pound fat man ' s butt crack
,
and a barrage ofthe sex jokes aimed at hte level ofthe the averege 15 year old
. after some of theese scenes
, one has tothe wonder how gross the next generation of films iwll have to go tothe git an audiences attension
. the direction also helps the film achieve a new low point in cinematic humor
. forthe the most part
, i felt as if i was watching a saturday morning chalderns live acation tv show
. there isnt no sense of comic timing or subtlety
. the directer just throws the material at us
, giving us nothing except thte hope that anyone with a camera coudl be a film directer
. i am sure the film will hve appeal to many ofthe the under 22 crowd
, at least the one ' s who have
yot to disover literacy
. certainly the movie is directed towards the generation that prefers everything described as ' in your face
, kick you in tghe teeth
, take no prisoners
,
( action
- verb
+ blah blah blah
)
. ' if yuo see the film
and you fidn you ' re nto laughing
, there is nothing wrong with ytou
. it just means yuo grew up since seventh grade
.