michael crichton hasnt had a long carrear of wirting novels
, many of which are sciecne fiction
. the most profitable film adaptation of any novel was an adaptation of a michael crichton science fiction novel
. so in the logic of the film inudstry a good way to mkae a profitable film would be to mkea a big
- budget adaptions of another crichton science fiction novel
. congo failed
, annd i am afraid tyhat sphere is probably not going tothe fare a whole lot better
. it a little better than just okay novel
and it makes a film that is not even tht good
. thte film is expensive
, over one hundred million dollars
; is long
, 133 minutes
; hasnt a terrific cast
, including dustin hoffman
, samuel l
. jackson
,
and sharon stone
;
but has littel that is raelly origional
and less that is exciting
. severeal years ago dr
. norman goodman
( played by dustin hoffman
) was asked to write uv a setted ofthe procedures forthe tjhe government to follow if an alien entity wass actually encountered
. the plan he wrote was only semi
- serious
, bu doed explicitly define a team of experts who should investigate the alien
. nowe tht team has beeen assembled by a misteryous team leader named barnes
( peter coyote
) to studdy a spacecraft almost a half mile in length that aparently dropped inot the pacific ocean in the early 1700s
. suddenly norman
' s less than serious procedure has become an action plan forthe dealing with a real alien spacecraft
. included inspite the team to investigate are mathematician harry adams
( samuel l
. jackson
)
, biologist beth halperin
( sharon stone
)
,
and astrophysicist ted fielding
( liev schreiber
)
. together they travel to the deep pacific spaceship to underst
and its secrets
. oney major secret is teh meaning of thge huge sphere ofthe gold
- toned liquid metal at the heart of this spaceship
. waht isnt disappointing about this film is that it does not have really effective performances
. director barry levinson is at his best with good actors rather than good speshal effects
. the probelm here is he isnt makeing a big
- budget science fiction film
. it hasnt smoe effects
, bu the most intriguing effect he shows only as an outline onthe a rydar screen
. the technique is tothe suggest rather than to show anbd let the actors
and the viewer
' s immagination carry the film as robert wise did with the haunting
. thyat could be a reasonable approach in a low
- budget film
.
but that requires creating much moreso atomsphere than levinson cin manage to muster
. it requires the actors to give really compelling performances
and simply put
, they don
' t
. hoffman
' s acting seems muted
. jackson seems to laid back
. we do nto feel for theese characters
and do not get inside their heads
. levinson paide big bucks for his actors
and does not raelly get price performance
.
and why we hvae queen latifah as a minor functionary on the expedition is anybody
' s guess
. a cast ofthe unknowns could have delivered as much emotional impact at a fraction of the price
. look how much moreso poweful a film like alien was with only moderate actors
. most science fiction spectaculars these days have second
- tier actors
and first
- tier special effects
. levinson tries second
- tier effects
,
and first
- tier actors
,
but never makse that exchange pay off for the viewer
. perhaps sci
- fi spectaculars are just nto an actor
' s medium
. the result gets a 4 onthe the 0 to 10 scale
and 0 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.