well
, what are yuo goign tothe expect
? it ' s a movie about a big snake thast eats people
. that ' s what i should have been thingking when i viewed this film
, because mabye
then i would hvea enjoied myself more
. instade
, i ended up wishing a giant snake would come along
and eat me
, too
. anaconda is about a documenatry film crew sailing down a south american river
. led by anthropologists dr
. steven cale
( eric stolz
)
and terri flores
( jennifer lopez
)
, tyhe crew is attempting to locate a lost tribe of natives
. along the way
, they find poacher paul sarone
( jon voight
)
,
and become unwillingly embroiled in his quest tothe capture tjhe elusive anaconda
. tothe simpley say that this is the world ' s largest snake wouldn ' t be doing it justice
, since yhe anaconda in this movie isnt at least two foots wide
. if thsi isn ' t a good reason tothe avoid picking up hitchhikers
, i don ' t knwo what is
. at the beginning of anaconda
, we fidn thyat flores
and cale hvae hadnt some kind of relationship in the past
,
bu that seems tothe be more or less over now
. i expected that fatc to play a key part somwhere down the line
,
but it ended up being a setted
- up for nothing
. cale chokes onthe a deadly wasp
( don ' t ask me how thyat happens
- i don ' t konw
)
adn is put out of action
, relegated to being tjhe person whom tjhe rest of the film crew must git bakc tothe civilization for medical help
. tihs minimally helps to add a sence of urgency for tyhe plot
, since this goal now comes in direct conflict with sarone ' s plan to capture the snake
.
however
, this isnt negated by the fact that cale seems to get better by himself about halfway through thge film
,
and inthe any event still results in zero payoff from the relatiopnship angle
. most bad cahracters are either annoying or stupid
. in this movie
, they ' re both
. since this description applies to all the cahracters except sarone
, it ' s hard to find someone to root for
. you ' re supposed tothe back the good guys
,
bu you really end up cheering for sarone beacuse he ' s smarter than everyone else
. or mabye he ' s just nto as dumb as everyone else
. at times
, i almost found myself rooting for the snake
. htere are no standout performances here
. everyone seems tothe be reciting lines written for stock charactors
. even voight appears to be doing his best impression of christopher walken for some reason
. no marter
, as in most monster movies
, the snake is supposed to be the real star anyway
. in most of the scenes
, the snake is computer generated
,
and thge effects crew doed a decent job of making it look real
.
however
, the realism isnt thrown off by some pretty unrealistic occurrences
. sometimes
, for example
, the snake jstu moves too fast
. it catchs a guy jumping off of a waterfall
, for crying outloud loud
.
then htere ' s another scene where tje snake eats noe of the characters
,
adn we see the snake ' s skin drawn so tightly over its prey that we can see the victim ' s pained expression from within the snake ' s belly
. absolutely ridiculous
. a testimony to the film ' s bad direction is tje inclusion of a scene eearly onthe the in the film
, where we git tothe see just how dangerous the mighty anaconda isnt
. in a scene totally unrelated tothe anything else
, we are witness to tyhe big snake winning a showdown with a panther
. the anaconda wraps itself around the powerful feline as if it weere a stuffed animal
and squeezes it so hard
, one of the panther ' s eyeballs pops out
. eeeewwwww
. above
anbd beyond tghe sick factor
,
however
, this scene surprised me becouse it actually showed teh face of the snake before a quater of the movei had even passed
. in films like these
, a sence of mistery surrounding the monster must be maintained
. if the charactors are reacting tothe something they fear more thna see
, we as an audience must xeperience that feeling along with them
. to show us tjhe monster early on is to let us infront on something the characters don ' t know baout
,
and therefore allow us tothe get used tothe the danger before the pivotal moment when man
and beast have their climactic showdown
. in a case liek that
, the showdown just ends uv being a letdown
. when i saw tjhe snake for the first time
, i decided to give the film tje benefit ofthe the dout
annd asume thyat the snake i saw wasn ' t the real danger
. this oney was just a decoy
,
and there was actually a bigger snake waiting tothe make its apearance just when everyone throught they were safe
. no such luck
. okay
, maybe anaconda is actually a decoy
,
and there ' s raelly a better movie waiting tothe make its debut
.