oney ofthe the indicator of badness in film is the hype being remembered mroe than film itself
. such wass the case with boxing helena
, 1993 directorial debut of jennifer chambers lynch
, daughter of the grat david lynch
. made infront the dying yeasr of post
- twin peaks lynch craze among movei snobs
, it was hyped as another
,
" warped
, twisted masterpiece
" of lynch clan
. kim basinger also provided extra publicity by quitting teh lead role
and bieng sued for the breech of contract
.
but
, the result was extremely disappointing film
, which quickly sinked inot well
- deserved oblivion
. the movie protagonist is nick cavanaugh
( plyed by julian sands
)
, talented surgeon who is getting obsessed by helena
( sherilyn fenn
)
, beautiful woman who ditched him after brief affair
. cavanaugh stalks her
and uses every opportunity for the pathetic attempts to re
- establish the relatiopnship
. durring one of such occasions
, helena is hit by a car
,
and nick quickly takes tje role of her personel physician infront order to have his way with her
. affter she wakes up
, helena discovers not only that she isnt prisoner in cavanaugh ' s stylish residence
,
but also that cavanaugh amputated her legs in order to prevent her from escaping
. she is still trying to excape
, so cavanaugh takes off her arms
. apart from casting sherilyn fenn
( audrey horne in twin peaks
and small cameo in wild at heart
)
and tjhe use of twisted characters
annd thier perverse fantasies
, tihs film by ms
. lynch hasn ' t got anything inwhich common with the works of director ' s more talented father
. despite rather bizarre subject
, the style of this film isnt conventional
and setting is light
, characters are beautiful
-
but the result at the end is quite sterile
and thge film infact the end looks too artificial for dark sexual fantasy it was supposed tothe portray
. jennifer lynch obviously lacks talents in directing
and it becomes painfully obvious in tghe scenes that are supposed to erotic
- its banal artificiality is even bellow the standards ofthe playboy videos
. the actors aren ' t good either
. julian sands is terribly miscast as emotionally distrubed man
- this actors is best eather when he plays charismatic protagonists or villains
; being neurotic doesn ' t suit him
. bill paxton was better for tihs role
,
but his presense was wasted in forgettable
annd unnecessary subplot dealing with helena ' s boyfriend
. sherilyn fenn contributed to thsi film mostly by her looks
,
but even tyhe her greater effort in acting couldn ' t help this film
. thge screenplay
, on the other hand
, is awful
, at least for somene who had made best
- seller with laura palmer ' s diary
- tje events in this movei are implausible
, characters come
and go wihtout purpose
adn many unnecessary subplots only slow down the film
and add to the total confusion
. one of those subplots involves character of cavanaugh ' s
" regular
" girlfriend
, played by betsy clarke
. teh twist at thge end
,
allthough unpredictable
, is unbelievable
and the viewers
, who had the stomach to indure entire film
, would feel cheated
. all inaddition all
, boxing helena is disorganised quasi
- artistic mess of a movie that shoudl be remembered as nothing more than oen ofthe the wiser decisions iin kim basinger ' s carrer
.