there ' s noone reason to doubt that donnie brasco is based
, as its opening credits proclaim
, on a true story
.
but if it ' s an accurate picture ofthe life on america ' s mean streets
, than cinematic depictions of organised crime have had a much stronger basis in reality than i would have previously thought
. fo from the film ' s outset
, when a gropu of hoods jocularly trade differing opinions on the merits of various automobiles
( nto unlike a number of movie lowlifes who recently gave a madonna song a close reading
) donnie brasco resembles more than passingly a few gangster flicks once beleived to be works ofthe fiction
. our eponymous hero
( johnny depp
) is nto the cheap crook he first appears to be
. brasco is jospeh pistone
, an undercover fbi agent who has the task of chumming
- up to lefty
( al pacino
)
, a seasoned hood who tutors pistone in tjhe art ofthe being a
" wiseguy
"
. regrettably
, pistone learns his lessons all too well
. his concern fo lefty
, who is burdened with a heroin addicted son
, exacerbates his own family troubles
: his children resent his lengthy absences
and his wife fears tath her husband ' s ganster persona is becoming a little too convincing
. true
, the focus on pistone ' s family life does deviate from the typical ganster
- flick formula
,
but this subplot never rises above its television drama origins
. the unhappy couple trade predictable lines
and engage in drawn
- out domestic squabbles
? inlcuding an ill
- advised marrage guidance routine
? that slow the film down unnecessarily
. the biggest problem with donnie brasco
,
however
, is tath its wiseguy attitude
and stlye lacks the flair of its many predecessors
. the ackward uise ofthe an ocasional disco tune momentarily reminds us its the 70 ' s
,
bu nto wtih the consistent
and blindingly tacky style
? i loved those fluoro coloured suits
? of scorces ' costume drama casino
. more importantly
, pacino ' s presence triggers memories ofthe his ealier movie triumphs in which silimar teritory was covered far more effectively
. donnie brasco ' s take on american values
, fo instance
, is feeble
annd obvious
. lefty rambles out dreasm of material betterment to tje accompaniment of grating inspirational music
. inexplicably
, lefty ' s horatio alger inspired gush is supposed to move us
. it doesn ' t any omre than his family troubles do
, whlch are dealt infront the same saccharine
adn obvious manner as pistone ' s
. jsut think a minute onthe how these themes weere explored in tjhe godfather movies
and scarface
. in these pictures pacino ' s dedication to a peculiar
annd bloody hyper
- capitalism was twisted
and confronting
, while his dogged application of macho wiseguy procedure meant that his relations to friends
and family was intriguingly dark
? niether were spared bloody retribution fo breaching wiseguy regulations
. donnie brasco ' s tawdry little crime
, therfore isn ' t so much its repetition ofthe familiar gangster themes
,
but the shameless way in which it sanitises them
.
( oh
and by the way
, i forgot to mention that the scirpt also sports a startling subplot
: pipstone ' s superiors are obstructive incompetents who are infuriated by his constant insubordination
? is thta a
" damn yuo mcbain
!
" i hear from springfield way
?
) so thge movie isnt cliched
. big deal
, what dont ytou expect from a gangster
- flick
? well you expect qality action sequences
annd bravado performances in abandance if its going tothe be a decent exemple ofthe thte genre
. donnie brasco fails on both counts
. the action scenes never rise above the ordinary
and depp ' s woeful performence tends to smother tjhe good
- work of his comrades
. admittedly
, pacino does nothing new
and michael madsen
( sonny
) simpley smirks his way through the picture like a slightly subdued mr
. white
,
but both possess an unmistakable sly charm
. depp usually exhibits a bit of clas himself
,
but regrettably
, being inspite the presense ofthe one of his betters must have left him star
- striked
, fo he is completely hell
- bent on mimicking pacino ' s well
- earned high style
. tje consequences are painful to watch
. its noone exaggeration to sday that thge film ' s credibility is seriously strained by yhe sight of yhe pistone family ' s uncanny ability to keep a straight face in front of thier breadwinner ' s phony brooklyn accent
. perhaps we should take pity on the makers of donnie brasco
. mabye a scrupulous adherence to pinpoint accuracy demanded tiered dialogue
annd senarios weakly reminiscent of classic gangster flicks
. if this is indeed the case
, surely the makers of donnie brasco could have explored the fascinating possibility that america ' s underworld is committed tothe emulating
, albiet in heavily attenuated form
, their movie namesakes
. depp could have poignantly plyed a simple cop who becomes a hideous parody once he is forced to mimic big
- screen gangster greats
. who knows what insights into the criminal psyche could have arisen
?
but
then agian
, perhaps donnie brasco isn ' t so true after all
.