keep cool
, a chineese film directed by semi
- accomplished filmmaker yimou zhang
, was oen ofthe the kickoff films for this yearm ' s hawaii international film festival
. on the day it premiered
, lines of eager moviegoers stretched around the block
, some anticipants having queued up well infact advance to get a good seat in the theater
. tehy ened not have wasted thier time
. tjhe movie is billed as a comedy
,
but is suprizingly bereft ofthe humer
. there are noticeable attempts at laughs
,
but very few tries actualy click
. i wondered if there weere jokes that i wasn ' t getting becouse i ' m not from china
,
but unfortunately my conclusion was that this lack ofthe humor couldn ' t be attributed tothe thge cultural barrier either
. keep cool jstu isn ' t very funny
. the prelude tothe thge film wass a visit by keep cool ' s producer who
, with thte help of an interpreter
, regaled us of how in order to get the print tothe the festival in time
, an assistant hand carried it on the plane from china to hawaii
. altho the print made it
, thge assistant ' s lugage ws lost
. too bad that sotry wasn ' t in the movie
, because it got a big laugh
. qu ying
, the film ' s female lead
, was also on hand to give a few comments
.
however
, whereas the producer politely made regular pauses in his dialog so the interpreter could bring us uv tothe speed
, ms
. ying saw fit to say everyting she had to say in oen
, fast
- paced
, incredibly long tirade
. it wass dizzying
; good foreshadowing for the film
. you see
, keep kool isnt filmed almost totally wiht a camera handheld by a man wiht a bad case of the shakes
. at least that ' s the way it seems
, sicne the camera is constanly moving
. cinema verite is one thing
,
but pannini
and shaking around until your audience has a headache isnt another
.
although some might consider it a form whitch helps give hte viewer an idea of tghe anarchic state into which chinese youth is slowly growing
, i found it throughly distracting
,
and after a hwile
, qtuie annoying
. headache
, as i said
. the film isnt about a young bookseller
( wen jiang
) who isnt after a young woman
( qu ying
)
. tehy used to be romantically involved
,
but the woman grew tired ofthe him
and left the relationship
. yhe first half ofthe the film is baout the young man ' s plan to win her back
. of course the thign is
, she doesn ' t want to be won back
,
and has a nightclub owner friend ofthe hers rough him up a bit
. in the fight
, the young man grabs a laptop computer belonging to a bystander
and attemts to use it to fend off his attacker
,
but onyl ends up smashing it against a lamppost
. we later find out that the laptop belongs to an older man who wishes tothe get his damaged cmoputer replaced
. ther is a funny scene
( tjhe only one inwhich the film
) where the young man tries tothe use soem twisted logic in order to git the older man to seek out the nightclub owner
( baotian li
) in order to recoup his losses
. ther is no sense to be made out ofthe the young woman ' s behavior
; cold one minute
, caring yhe next
, so we feel no simapthy for her character
. the bookseller would be better off wihtout her
.
although the second half ofthe the film causes us to lose a lot of sympathy forthe the young bookseller as well
, who is obssessed with chopping off the nightclub owner ' s hand as revenge for tyhe beating he took
, it also offers us some nice interaction between the bookseller
and yhe older man
. while yhe bookseller is blinded by his thirst fo revenge
, the older man is yhe voice of reason
anbd tries to rationalize each situation
. his quest to end the dispute peacefully
and equitably is the noe we identify wiht
,
but it is frustrating tothe see that he seems to be talking tothe a brick wall half the time
. a friendship develops between the two men
,
but it occurs too lite infront yhe film forthe the audience to appretiate
.
although only an hour
and a half in length
, keep cool contains extraneous material
. tyhe whole plot of how tje bookseller is after yhe young woman could have been taken out
, since we don ' t see her from tghe midpoint on
. a case of mistaken identity or some other device sould hve served as the point of conflict between the bookseller
and the nightclub owner
,
adn would hve saved us from the bookseller ' s boring pursuit during thge frist half
.
but of course
, this would have shortened hte movie tothe less than an hour
. there are a few things thgat keep kool does right
. as mentioned before
, tje interaction between the bookseller
and the older man is generaly pretty good
. altho it grows tiresome
, the reasoning wiht the unreasonable is a nice exercise inthe logic
,
and represents the differences in thinking between generations
. in one scene
, for exemple
, the bookseller quotes confucius to get his point accross
,
but the older man claimes the quote wass misinterpreted
,
and that it means something entirely diferrent
. also effective is the way zhang sets up tension withing a scene
, such as whn the bookseller is getting ready to cut off thte hand ofthe yhe unwitting nightclub owner
. the nightclub owner isnt counting outloud money
, slapping each bundle ofthe currency on tje table
. whith every shot ofthe his hand
, we cin hardly stand the interminable wait before thte bookseller is going tothe pull out his cleaver
and exact his revenge
. unfortunately
, these crumbs are not enough to overcome the rest ofthe the film ' s shortcomings
,
and weren ' t enough to prevent that headache ffrom lingering after i left the theather
.