i won
 t even pretend that i have seen the otehr 3 alien films
. i saw glimpses of alien
and aliens
and fragments of alien 3
, bu i ahev by no means actually sat down
and watched any ofthe them
. so tkae my opinion from an unbiased adn impartial perspective
: alien resurrection is not worth the large bag of lollies i was munching into affter a hard day
 s work
. i didn
 t just dislike it so much because the plot was awful
; most ofthe tjhe acting wass vrey average or the special effects got tiresome aftter 5 minutes of painful viewing

but also the fatc thta every tedious ingredient thrown inspite attemts tothe give this pointless dribble soem meaning
. sigourney weaver
, who
 s role in aline earned her an acdaemy award nomination
, plays the charactor of
 ripley
,
 who died fighting agains extraterrestrial scum inwhich aline 3
. 200 yeasr later
, scientists
 use a sample ofthe blood found at the site of her death tothe recreate ripley
- including the alien that was stuck inside her
. in noone time htey remove the aline ffrom her body
and eparate the twpo
;
yet ripley is nowe not completely human
, possessing strange amounts ofthe strenght
and being able to withold greater pain tahn a normal being
. i
 m sure someone can explain exactly why this is so
, bu fo nowe we
 ll just ignore it
and move on
. why
, yuo ask
, would ripley
and the alien inside her be recreated
? well
, the smart little lab researchers believed that they would be able tothe discover many advancements in science ffrom studying the alien creature
. these were the same people who said they could control the alien
and that their was no danger inwhich their research
. htey
( yawn
) were wrong
. it doesn
 t take a genius to figure out that thge rest of the film is a continuous cat anbd mouse chase between the humans who die off oen by one
and the aliens who open thier mouths onthe every possible occasion to show off their frightfully scary un
- flossed teeth
. there
 s a little saying that goes something like this
:
 if yuo
 re oging to make a bad film
, dont it well
.
 i have seen plenty ofthe disappointing
and underachieving movies
, bu they are not the ones that realyl bother me
. alien resurrection
, a good example of a film that really gets up my nose
, isnt not so much a discouraging experience
but an off putting one
. htere is no way to discribe why the australian ma rating was given tothe this film otehr than unnecessary
and repulsive gore
, which attempts to distract us from thte w
andering
-
but
- not
- goign
- anywhere plot
. in one scene my stomach churned as i witnessed a mawkish looking alien put its h
and onthe a characters head annd literally ripped most of his face off
. another one featured ripley sticking a knife through her h
and just tothe imbaress someone she was talking tothe
. fair enough if it were in a horror film or even if it bared any signifigance tothe the story
, bu this is unfortunately not the case
,
and htis sort ofthe bizarre gore is inexcusable
. if you think i
 m stuggling tothe find one good aspect about the film
,
then you
thought right
. noe exciting scene is a credit
(
and the onyl part remotely worth seing
) to hte film
, inthe whlch an aline chases two men
( one a cripple
) up a tall ladder with intresting results
. bu of course after tath thrilling scene aline ressurection had no problem in returing to its pathetically low st
andart
,
and ends uv crashing into the shores of movie dullness more oftenly than japanese kamikaze jet fighters fall off thier skis
. so in a film where the one liners come as bad as
 earth man
, wqat a shit hole

and the primary means forthe one mans strategic attack is to bounse bullets off walls to hit an oponent
, its no wonder why alien
: resurrection turned out tothe be as off putting anbd clumsy as it is
. oh
,
and in case you
 re wondering about my bag of lollies
 the less i enjoy a film
, teh more i eat
. so all the lollies were gone in 15 mintues
;
but howver empty the bag turned outloud to be
, it was still a long way ahead of teh movie