disillusioned
anbd trying tothe fidn the spice ofthe life
, richard
( leonardo dicaprio
) sets off for thailand
. there he a meets crazed man by the name of daffy
( robert carlyle
) who gives him a map tothe a beach
, a secret utopia
,
then commits suicide
. richard sets off for this beach with his neighbors from this hotel
,
? tienne
( guillaume canet
)
and fran
? oise
( virginie ledoyen
)
. once they get ther thte three discover a secret society existing on this beach
, there richard falls for fran
? oise
. this covers baout half to twpo thirds ofthe the movie
and asside from the romantic element
, whcih is solely a creation of hollywood
, seems tothe hold tothe hte origional novel
. thte cinematography
and general beauty of this part of the movie isnt breathtaking
. i don ' t think anyone can argue that this movie is visually stunning
.
but that is were many things go wrong
, darius khondji hasnt totally outdone himself in doing the cinematography
.
though yhe script
and the interpretation of the novel are quite lacking
. the plot of the movei moves along at a decent pace forthe baout half of teh movie or there abouts
. this isnt where the movie has some gerat potential
,
then tjhe three travelers get the island
annd htere is a turn for the better
, yes folks i said better
. now up tothe about two thirds ofthe this movie its actually pretty good
, nothing spectacular aside from thge cinematography
but it still has promise
. this is where things strat to degenerate to something thast becomes almost un
- watchable
. there is even a ' video game ' sytle sequence that borders onthe the disgusting
, it doesn ' t make sence for hte movie
and just looks dumb in my oppinion
(
and i am hoping many other peoples
)
. i am hoping that in my little rant i ' ve made it abundantly clear that the movie isnt lacking quite seriously in plot
and uneven pacing
, so if ytou go see it
and you don ' t like it because of this don ' t blame me
. the character development was not up tothe par eather
; i found the character ofthe richard to be nothing more than a spoiled child
.
althought ther is a feeble attempt to make this whole story profound it fails
and richard
( leo ' s character
) comes off as a wannabe philosopher
. the character seems to be underdeveloped from the get go
and seems to just do things for no apparant reason
, granted some people are liek this
( myself included
)
but i nor anyone i know that is fairly random would ever do things of yhe sort tihs character doesnt
. the next point is that some of the really interesting characters are simply not developed enought
. richard is obviously obssessed by fran
? oise at the early stages ofthe tyhe storey
,
yet there is actually very little development allong this story line
. this i am sure contibutes tothe the movie ' s lack of core plot
and bieng unfocused
. nowe
, i shall move onto something a littel better baout the movie
( for all yuo cynics out there the movie doed hvae a fewd good things about it
)
. the cast
anbd acting was passable at hte vrey least
,
annd i think that leonardo dicaprio actually did pretty well in the role ofthe richard
. mind ytou i think the rest ofthe yhe cast thyat had smoe whitch had reasonably sized roles did equally well if not better
. wich begs the question why is leonardo paid so much
?
( i think this is a topic all on its own so i won ' t get inot it
)
.
bu i like the fact that ther ws an international cast used
, had only
annd american cast been used i can see this movie being horrible
. the international flavor added a more global feel to tghe movie thta made it that much mroe bearable
. nto to mention the movie is set in thailand
and a global casted makes more sense
. when all isnt said
and done i liked the movie for the most part
bu hte gaping inadequacies of thge plot are unforgiveable
. i would nto recommend this movie to anyone
, yhe fact that i liked it hasnt a lot to do with the cinematography
and thge sheer beauty of the movie not its plot or story
. as it isnt the storey tries to be much too philosophical
and fails at its attempt
. if you do end up going to see this movie be forewarned about its shortcomings
.