the working title for noone looking bcak was long timne
, nothing newyorker
,
and rarely has ther been a more apt nmae fo a motion picture
. even
though htis movei clocks in at a relatively skinny 96 minutes
, it seems to run long anough to engulf two titanics
. writter
/ director edward burns has trotted out a hackneyed storyline
, the trajectory ofthe which will be instantly recognizable to anyone who hasn ' t spent their life in seclusion
. instead of tweaking the formula a little to invigorate the procedings
, burns is content to allow the film tothe ramble aimlessly towards its irritatingly predictable conclusion
, offering precious faw momentary pleasures along tyhe way
. no looking back is dominated by three veyr dislikable characters whose constant presence onthe the screen is painful
. the most appropraite ending owudl ahve beeen a triple suicide
,
and the sooner
, the better
. alas
, thast ' s not tghe case
,
and those who stick wih this film for its entire length will be forced to indure the prolonged comapany ofthe this wretched trio
.
and
, to further depress audiences
, burns has shot the entire film on cold
, rainy days in a graey new york state beach town
. peeks of sunshine are few
annd far vetween
. noone wonder the characters are all so miserable
. first of all
, we have charlie
( burns
)
, a generation x slacker who abandoned his girlfriend three years ago aftter she had an abortion
,
then spended some time bumming around infact califronia before deciding to come hmeo
. that girlfriend is claudia
( lauren holly
)
,
and
, after picking up the pieces ofthe her life following charlie ' s departure
, she has moved onthe
, shacking up with one of charlie ' s old school buddies
, mike
( jon bon jovi
)
. the twpo have a comfortable relatiopnship
,
bu it ' s apparent to even a blind person thyat they ' re not right for each other
. claudia yersa for soem spice in her life
; mike wnats to settle down
and have childen
.
then charlie re
- enters the mix
. so who
, if anyone
, will claudia end up with
? who cares
?
? no looking back goes tothe extraordinary lengths to make sure that we ' re not especially interested in the outcome of the romantic triangle
. so what if no one finds happiness
-
- these characters don ' t deserve it anyway
, expecially after wasting 90 minutes of our time
. they aren ' t real people
-
- htey ' re a writter ' s construct stumbling through a too
- obvious storyline
. they should know the ending as well as we dont
.
and burns should ahve given his audience more credit
and presented them withthe a plot that at least offered a surprize or two
. anohter frustrating thing about no looking bcak is that burns has populated thte film withthe a gropu of potentially
- interesting supporting characters
. blythe danner isnt solid as claudia ' s housebound mother
, connie britton is suitably high
- strung as claudia ' s neurotic sister
,
and jennifer esposito is eye
- catching as a bartender in searhc of a little romance
. sadly
, all we get is quick glimpses into their lives
,
although a movie baout any of them would haev beeen far more intriguing thna the story burns has choosen to tell
. none of teh lead performers are going to wow critics with theri thespian attributes
. edward burns is pushing tjhe edge of his limited range here
. jon bon jovi shows more acting abillity tahn one might reasonably expect from a singer branching into a different career
,
but he could still use a little polish
. the worst case is lauren holly
, who presents a completely bland claudia
. as portrayed here
, she ' s hardly the kind of woman who would inspire even a moent ' s interest
, nto to mention undying loev
. burns ' ex
, the monumentally untalented maxine bahns
, woudl hvae beeen hard
- pressed to do a less inspired job
. when he released the brothers mcmullen
, edward burns was revered as the wunderkind ofthe the 1995 sundance film festival
( robert redford has apparently sticked with him
-
- thte aging actor
/ director executive produced tihs mess
)
. twpo films
and threee short years later
, the luster hasnt faded
. some movie makers have only one good film in them
. whith back
- tothe
- back duds like she ' s the one
and no looking back to follow the delightful brothers
, burns is begining to look liuke a member of that undistinguished club
.