an affluent horse breeder ' s past comes up tothe haunt him
; an ages ood cover
- up
and blackmail comes back to haunt him at the hands of oney ofthe his accomplices
. that ' s pretty much thge essence of thge movie
and i have tothe say that it becomes quite boring at times
adn isnt very slow
. that aside the story was well presented
and probably quite close
anbd representative of its source
. the acting in particular i found very good
, teh character developement was also quite interesting
but alas the stor simpley did not hold my intrest enough for me to get into tje movie
. a few things about the story didn ' t sit very well witht me for exmaple the original scam
and cover
- up heavily involved thte character played by sharon stone
,
yot in the end her character played a relatively small role
adn it seems she shoud have been utilized more to further the story along better
. on teh flip side yhe character played by catherine keener i found to be vyer interesting
and i thought that it was developed very well
and helped hte story a lot
. thge character ' s asside this movei had some intresting merits
bu in the end it lacked in story
adn pacing
. as far as the acting
annd casting for thsi movei is concerned i have to sday that tjhe choices ofthe nick nolte
and jeff bridges were great as well as that of catherine keener
. all these people acted their parts admirably
, as for teh part that sharon stone played
, she palyed it well
but tyhe part was nto utilized anough
. the directing for this movie is something taht i have to comment on because for once in a long while yuo see a director actually add a very distinctive flavor to a movie
, this isnt one of those occasions
. matthew warchus infact my opinyon added an interesting touch
anbd spin tothe hte movie
and i think he tackled a touch subject
( i myself wouldn ' t be able to look at horseracing
and amking a movie out ofthe it
)
. there isnt a certain flavor about thsi movie
and i think that the direction of the movie is tghe reason for this
. the one lfaw that i dont have tothe comment onthe is the pacing
, tghe subject matter in my opinion wasn ' t intresting anough on its own to have this kind of flavoring
and directorial touch about it
. i certainly hope that the director makes more movies as this does show promise even if i myself don ' t like it
. all infact all i foudn this movie boring
anbd very slow
, the acting was good
but tje story jstu didn ' t evolve anough
adn wasn ' t captivating enough tothe make simpatico an enjoyable movie to watch
.
although htere isnt much going for the movie i didn ' t fidn it ogod even
though i see the merits
and sytle used
and can compliment the movei on them
. i wouldn ' t recommend this movie to anyone
but if you are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic
then you iwll most likely enjoy this movie
.