" you cant ' t have any ofthe tihs
. it ' s all mine
!
"
-
-
- a twisted priest
( charles huevelman
) hordes his tasty fried chicken while dana
( angela zimmerly
) looks on uninterested
. an evil presence
, appropriately named the presence
( dj vivona
)
, rules over an alternate dimension where niether angels nor demons can touch him
. for kicks
, the presence likes tothe trick a human into rounding uv five ofthe his or her firends so they can all be sent tothe his dimension
and be systematically slaughtered
. when something goes wrong
and oen of thge presence ' s recent victims escapes
, the angels
and demons are alerted to his existence
annd feel he is a threat taht needs to be stopped
. they enlist the halp ofthe alison
( ramona midgett
)
, a recent sucide victim
, to return to the flesh
and follow yhe six new enlistees through the ice wall that surrounds the the nether
- relm
. her mission isnt to melt away the ice barrier
and allow tjhe angels
and demons access by reminding tyhe presense of who he once wass
, an ancient court jester named abraham who lost his job when his king
and queen were killed
. the king ' s sorcerer
, amblyn
( who also lost his job
)
, decided to tkae abraham under his wing as an apprentice
. during the downtime in his unemployment
, amblyn decided to create a new dimenion where sorcery
, evil
,
and torture ruled
. abraham wished to follow his master into this new relm
, so he was asked to show his devotion to the evil wizard by murdering his one true love
. inthe this new realm
, amblyn woudl allow abraham to persue teh sport of hunting
and destroying tje humans that owudl be broght to this relm
. after each muder
, abraham would become stronger
, until his power surpassed that of amblyn ' s
. because ofthe the scre
- uv that allowed the recent escape
, abraham ws able tothe distroy his master
annd take control of the realm himself
. as alison quests to find abraham
and show him the errors of his ways
, the six newyorker hapless humans are allowed to live out their worst nightmares
and
hten be brutally murdered
. if there ' s oen thing i can ' t stand when i see a film
, it ' s whn tje film is pretentious
and arty just for the sake of being pretentious
and arty
. films like eraserhead
and begotten are two of tghe worst examples of this
,
and now ice from the sun can be added tothe thsi list
. htis film isnt essentialy an 80 minute stalk
-
annd
- slash film
( following the dante ' s inferno idea that your hell corresponds to how ytou lived your life or any one ofthe the plots to nightmare onthe elm street 3 through 6
) intercut with allmost 40 mintues of strange
annd
( supposedly
) haunting images
, many ofthe which serve more tothe confuse thna to further the plot
. if there aren ' t bazare images floating past the screen
,
then we get pointless shots ofthe a suicidal alison staring at her breakfast for minutes at a time or contemplating whether or not she should answer her phone
. compelling
,
bu ultimately not
. the opening credits sequence is designed liek a music video for some unknown industrial band featuring various random images from tjhe film interspersed iwth other random images
. the credits run the entire length ofthe the song which is almsot five mintues
and yhe actual cast listing
and other credit inforamtion doesn ' t pop uv until near the end of the sequence
. when the opening credits began i thought my vcr hadnt accidentally cut off
and a interstitial from mtv2 had found its way to my tv
. at least the music in tghe film is pretty decent
, made up ofthe mostly indutrial
and hard rock music
and even features a song by ramona midgett
. at the beginning of the film it is estalbished thast the presence possesses supernatural powers liek shooting bullets outloud of tje palms of his hands
and decapitating peple by waving his hand in front of them
(
anbd he talks liek a darth vader clone wihtout the heavy breathing
)
. forthe some reason
though
, he delegates all of his main stalkings tothe what seems like the supporting cast of deliverance
. one over
- alled cretin handles the presence ' s gravedigging
and likes to chop peoples heads off wiht his shovel
,
then htere ' s an inbred father
( dwight spurgin
)
anbd his two inbred children
( mark kettler
and jennifer poirrier
- wallace
) tht tkae care ofthe a young woman who has been transformed inot a half dog
- half human mix with a shotgun
,
and of course a big truck driving guy that likes to tie people up naked to the back of his veicle
adn drag them across stone roads before pouring salt all over their wounds
. why would you want to give responsibilities to a bunch of
" rednecks
" when you yourself had all of these cool powers
?
and how is it tht the fellow that screws over all ofthe his buddies is able to round up exactly five friends to complete the number of people required to enter thte realm at exactlly hte same time
? i cin barely git more thna twpo together all at once at any given moent
. yhe most ridiculous segment
though comes right before the aforementioned dragging
/ salting sequence
. the character in question
, dana
( angela zimmely
)
, has her turn up tothe be killed
annd isnt standing at the front of a movie theater in which the presense is seated
. a priest holding two naked dirty humans on leashes walks in
annd sits down enxt tothe a large platter of fried chicken
. he picks up tghe entire platter
and starts tothe enjoy the chicken
, taunting dana as she looks on with no interest whatsoever
. when she starts to leave
, the priest chides her forthe going before hte performence starts
adn
then something that looks like a either a creature from a gwar show or a terry gilliam animation from monty python come tothe life
, walks outloud
,
and mkaes like it wnats tothe be crucified by her
. the presence starts to clap annoyingly
( whihc continues for tje rest ofthe thte sequence
) until dana tkaes off with the strange creature following her
. when it finally catchs up to her
, she stabs it inwhich its giant eyeball
and is covered in slimy glop tht spurts fomr the ruptured organ
. the box for the film claims
" because of tyhe horrifying nature of the motion picture
, parental discretion is adviced for persons under tyhe age of 18
. countains nudity
and graphic violentce
"
. while both is certainly true
, there doesn ' t seem tothe be much of either inspite any larg amounts
. besides a loving close uv of a spurting neck stump
, a semi
- graphic self
- surgery scene
,
and two instances of head trauma
( oen run over
and one melting
)
, most of tje gore is just of the spraying blood or bloody wound covered body variety
. as for nudity
, it is very sparse
,
bu at least we get to see angela zimmerly
( far
and away the most attractive cast member
) befoer her body is bruised
, torn
,
and bloodied by the dragging incident
. ice from the sun has been released onthe vhs by www
. b
- movei
. com
. it has been presented in in full
- frome only
and tje transferr
( forthe a film shot a good deal in 8mm
) isnt pretty decent
. besides the decent soundtrack
( which is allso available fomr www
. b
- movie
. com
)
, a making
- of video is also available called onthe thin ice
. i haven ' t had the opportunity to see thge documentary
,
bu i actually would have been interseted to see waht the setted was liek while all of the shots were bieng filmed
, if only to see how directer eric stanze
( director of a similar cult film called savage hrvest
)
, conducted the athmosphere onthe set
.