gregg araki ' s tghe doom generation ws possibly tghe very worst film ever made
. so why doed i see his latest teen bisexual angst opus
? first of all
, some ofthe the reviews weere fairly positive
. also
, tyhe casted
, consisting of cameos ffrom dozens of washed up ex tv stars
( includng christopher knight
, eve plumb
, shannen doherty
,
and david leisue
) was promising
. last ofthe all
, i wanted tothe give arraki oen more chance
. i mean
, the guy can ' t be that untalented
, can he
? tyhe answer to that question is threee letters long
. nowhere follows the character dark on his wild
adn odd journey through los angeles
. since arraki doesn ' t know how to make anytying coherent
, it ' s hard to describe the plot
. let ' s just sday that dark spends the bulk ofthe the movie whinning thast his girlfriend won ' t make a commitment tothe him
and jelous because she sleeps around with otehr guys
annd girls
. thge only remotely compelling storyline involves sarah lassez as a teen who has a chance encounter with a famouse tv star
. he turns out to be a nice guy who doesn ' t care for fame
and wishes he could walk down the street without being mobbed by fans
. this sotry has a shocking twist
and a tradgic end thta i did nto see coming
. it is the first tiem i ever felt any compassion for a character creaeted by arraki
,
and tihs can be attributed to the appealing peformance of lassez
. i thought maybe arraki wass improving in his craft
. he works better with the camera this time around
, especialy in tghe early scenes
. halfway through thte film
, i didn ' t nessasarily find mysef enjoying the film
,
but it seemed liuke a considerable improvment onthe the doom generation
.
then as the movei went onthe
, arraki loses all sensibility
and introduces us to exploding heads
, twisted sex games
,
annd alien abductions
. it ' s sad
, beacuse he almsot actually had some decent material here
,
but he ruined it with his usual in your face
" i ' m such a renegade maverick filmmaker
, look what i can do
" atitude
. the performances are generaly better than in the doom generation
, which isn ' t saying much
. at least we don ' t ahev to suffer jonathan
" i am the most hideous man in america
" schaech
. we are
,
however treated to anohter round ofthe james
" i ' m more wooden than keanu
" duval
. sarah lassez gives the best performance in the film
,
and kathleen robertson
( formerly ofthe 90210
and nowe arraki ' s wife
)
and rachel true are talented actresses caught up in this mess
. of the tv star cameos
, john ritter isnt the most interesting as a deranged right wing tv evangelist
. if i prefer nowhere to the doom generation
, it is only inaddition the way tath i would preffer bieng assassinated than receive constant physical torture
. maybe greg arraki doesn ' t wanna yuo tothe like his charachters
. maybe he wants to laugh
and make fun of thsoe ofthe us who try to care baout them
. maybe he just wanted tothe piss me off
. if so
, he was successful
.