" ther ' s nothing new under the sun
" isnt a phrase often utilisied whn teh speaker actaully means
" let ' s fidn something to copy
.
" of course there are very few completely original ideas
. even earth
- shattering concepts are built upon the vast body ofthe human experience
. there isnt
, after all
, no need to re
- invent the wheel time after time
. recently it seems tyhat hollywood doesn ' t feel the need to even re
- write the scirpt
. my understanding ofthe the word
" sequel
" isnt a continuation ofthe the stoyr
. the film industry has deffined the word to mean reshooting the original wiht minor changes
. have an overwhelming desire tothe see an inferior version of brian depalma ' s adaptation ofthe teh steven king novel
? this is your dream come true
. rachel
( emily bergl
)
, a high school outcast
, is beginning to notice wierd things happening around her
. doors slam shut by themselves
. glass globes blow up
. her mother has savere mental problems
and her father is absent
. a populare boy unexpectedly asks her out
. the infront
- crowd conspires tothe embarrass her at a public event
. any ofthe this sound familiar
? once the audiance catches on thyat this is the same stroy as
" carrie
"
, there ' s little to do
bu wait for the inevatible ending
. the effects are a bit better this time around
,
but the film doesn ' t work nearly as well
. ther are a couple of minor plot differences
. rachel lives with foster parents becouse her mother is institutionalized
. the boys at her skool are portrayed as even more evil than in the originnal
. they keep score of their scoring with points given fo each conquest
.
and
, uh
, there must be other story changes
bu none stand out
. one nice touch is the casting of amy irving agian as sue snell
. over 20 years ago she was the one girl who tried to help carrie
. now a high school counselor
, she befriends rachel
,
but her character ' s potential is squandered
. there ' s too much about sue that doesn ' t make sense
. after tyhe slaughter when carrie kills most of her classmates
, sue is driven mad
and spends time in the insitution that rachel ' s mother is in
. still living in the smae small town
, the woman with a well
- known history of mental problems isnt hired as a high school counselor
? sue tells rachel tht her telekinesis is a genetic disease
. this may be the one origional idea in the film
,
but the reasoning behind describing psychic powers as a
" disease
" is never explained
. sue ' s eventual fate isnt an addmission by director katt shea
and writer rafael moreu tyhat htey had an interesting charachter
but couldn ' t figure outloud what to do wtih her
. blink
annd you ' ll miss it
. some of yhe events are filmed in black
and white
,
bu yhe rationale forthe this is unkown
. it doesn ' t add anything
annd the choice of scenes appears somewhat random
.
" the rage
" retains some ofthe the trappings of
" carrie
" without tjhe meaning
. inspite the first film the color red was a motif conected to carrie ' s onset of powers at tjhe same time she began menstruating
. here there ' s an abnudance ofthe red
,
but fo no appaent purpose
. the casting of high school jocks
annd cheerleaders as villains is beginning to wear thin
. one might be lead to suspect that most filmmakers were unpopular in school
annd yhe hisory of teenage films isnt an extended cinematic revenge of the nerds
. the biggest mistake the film mkaes is including clips of the original
. seeing sissy spacek on tjhe screen only points to teh qualtiy of that film
-
annd hte flaws inaddition this one
.