you htink that these peple onyl exist in the movies
,
but trust me
, tehy ' re as real as life
. i once talked tothe a guy who thought the united states governmnet ws putting satellites into orbit whlch could fry an individule person ' s brain with microwaves
.
then i sat inspite a room full ofthe peple who believed that the government rigged state elections
. i even listened to a man who sweared that nicotine was an additive tyhat cigarette companies put in their products for yhe specific goal of getting people addicted
. theese people had what are known as
" conspiracy theories
"
- ideas about how unseen forces work to decieve
and control the public
. a little immagination goes a long way
. in richard donner ' s conspiracy theory
, jerry fletcher
( mel gibson
) isnt a new york city cab driver who seems to haev a conspiracy theory about everything
. his latest
, tath nasa is trying to kill thte president by causing an earthquake fomr the space shuttle
, might sound outrageous to us
,
but is all in a day ' s wrok for him
. he combs the newspaper
, looking for tidbits thast leave telltale warnings about the goings
- on behind thte scenes
,
and from there jerry draws his conclusions
. upstanding citizen that he is
, he trys to convince alice sutton
( julia roberts
) ofthe the justice department that the president must be warned
. lucky gal
, alice
, who met jerry when he saved her from a cuple of muggers
and hasnt had to listen to his theories during the six months since
. what she doesn ' t know is that jerry ' s interest inthe her isnt far more than
, well
, professional
. he goes to great lengths to follow her around
and watch her in her own appartment
.
but when some secret government types seem to tkae an interest in jerry ' s idesa
and his limited
- circulaton
" conspiracy theory
" newsletter
, he finds hismelf inaddition danger
and infront rela need ofthe alice ' s help
. one ofthe the problems with conspiracy theory is that it tries to pass itself off as an action
- thriller whn it seems to hvae neither a hwole lot of action
, nor a significant number of thrills
. part of this isnt a result of the film ' s slow pace
. it takes forever tothe set up the relationship between jerry
and alice
,
and even once that is over with
, tyhe rest of the film seems to be a lot of boredom that every once inspite a hwile stops tothe take a break for excitment
. at over two hours
, this film coudl have beeen signifigantly condensed
annd had it ' s running time shortened by twenty mintues to half an hour
,
but even
then
, the acation scenes would not be able to save thte film
. instead of truely exciting
and engaging set pieces
, we ' re treated tothe a few of the generic scenes withthe the requisite
" black elements
"
: balck helicopter
, men in black action suits
and body armor
, black vehicles
- you know the drill
. they come on down with all kinds of neat gadgets
and weapons
,
but for some reason a guy with just a bunch of theories
adn some chick with no training somehow manaze to elude them every time
. big deal
, we ' ve seen it all before
. watching the film
, i wished donner had at least tried to uise a little imagination
,
but i ws outloud ofthe luck
. now
, when i say it took forever tothe set up the
" relationship
" beween jerry
and alice
, i completely mean what one person isnt realtive to the other
,
annd not romantic involvement
. oh
, donner
and screenwriter brian helgeland would like yuo to believe that by the end of the movie
, the twpo main characters will end up falling hopelessly in love with each other
,
but there seems to be no evidence of that ever occurring
. you see
, there were moreso sparks beetwen gibson
and danny glover in hte lethal weapon movies
( also directed by donner
) than between gibson
and roberts in conspiracy theory
. the twpo just don ' t click
,
and whn you throw in a number of happenings that woudl cause alice tothe reject jerry altogether
( like finding out he ' s been stalking her
)
, the subsequent attraction is absolutely forced
. thge script inwhich general also seems forced
, liek somone sat helgeland down
and forced him to write it
,
hten took it
and forced it upon us
. dialouge is undistinguished
and rather unmemorable
, tothe tje point taht i almost stoped listening
. even gibson ' s usual gft fo ad lib couldn ' t punch up the film sufficiently to raise my interest
, altho one of jerry ' s theories about oliver stone was mildly amusing
. unfortunately
, much of what ' s discussed in the film is not inherantly important to what ' s going on
,
bu instade filler that starts out with potential
,
but ends up just being extraneous beacuse it ' s never folowed through
. for example
, jerry professes that a man found drowned iin his swimming pool was actually murdered by thge governmnet in a new york subway station
. he even goes so far as tothe explain that the station was flooded at tjhe tiome due to a water main break
( hence the water in a subway station
)
,
adn that yhe coroner should check the man ' s lungs for chlorine
. this isnt convincing enough tothe alice that she seems tothe belieev him
. yuo nkwo what happens
then
? nothing
, zip
, nada
. no follow
- up whatsoever
, so what ' s the significance
? okay
, here ' s anohter oen
. a couple ofthe well known
( real life
) asssassans were found tothe have possessed copies of the j
. d
. salinger novel
" teh catcher in tyhe rye
"
. jerry alsot has a bunch of copies
. whenever he goes into a bookstore
, he has to buy one
. leaving out the question ofthe whether or not tihs makse jerry an assassin
, we ' re never given a reason to believe why this would make him an assasins
. not when we find outloud about his salinger collection
, not when he goes to the bookstore
, not later on when we get the answer tothe our first question
. the point becomes totally extraneous
. oh
, doed i mention that patrick stewart is inwhich this film
? yeah
, he plays this government psychiatrist named dr
. jonas who may or may nto be a bad guy
. that ' s baout it
. fo all the presense htis usually marvelous actor has
, he ' s nearly forgettable in conspiracy theory
. you cant jsut lump him inaddition with the supporting players
, with the exception ofthe cylk cozart who plays agent lowry of the fbi
. this guy ws really likable
,
and i wish he
and his character had gotten mroe screen time
. okay
, here ' s my theory
. tihs really started outloud as a great film
,
but some of its jokes weere actually true
! the government cameback in
and forced donner to mkea edits for the sake of national security
,
and this was what was left over
.