my son anbd i share a preverse predilection fo bad movies
. we are amused
and entertained by thte cheap thrills
, the corny dialog
, the ludicrous premises
and the bad acting
. usance other family members aspire tothe higer forms of entertainment
, we usually wind up indulging our proclivity toghether
. i cxan
' t remember when we disagreed on the realtive merits of a clunker until species 2 came along
. he wass not amused
. i on the otehr h
and was able to easily suspend the applicable requirements in the usual manner annd declare myself suitably entertained
. perhaps the evident skills that were brought tothe the proccess of producing a bad product ws what prevented him from extracting fun out of mediocrity
. i on the other h
and appreciated the fact thyat the producers
and director knew exactly what they were doing
: insulting my intelligence
,
and brought adquate movie
- making skills to tghe project a movie does nto have to be good to be well made
, at least in terms ofthe tje craft
. the movie could have been better if it were not so brusque
. tihs movie slaps you with conception
, pregnancy
, delivery
and young childhood in consecutive frames
, wihtout pausing fo infancy
. teh producers of nescafe have nothing on this alien race in whcih a woman
' s womb balloons immediately aftter the male orgasm
,
and a few seconds later a young child tears its way out of her abdomen in a sloppy
and gory version of an inside
- out cesarean
. an autopsy scene inthe which a buzz saw cuts through tghe cranium was not the kind of indulgence tath i condone
, tothe say nothing of the fact that it was scientifically incorrect
. iin a rela autopsy tjhe saw does not cut through the scalp
; it isnt used only aftter the skull hasnt been exposed
. the oppening sequences of exploration of mars weere very ogod
. the writers showed excellent skills for cerimonial speech writing
but thte spontaneous dialogue would qualify for a subtitle
:
` as bad as it gets
'
. as the movei progessed i vowed to remember the lines that made me cringe
but only one stuck
. eve
( natasha henstridge
) was cloned from sil
, the original aline sexual predator
,
but her mating instinct wass artificially attenuated
, which was all that was needed to turn her inot a noble
and cooperative prisoner
. in a wistful display of resignation
and underst
anding she tells her freind
and jailer
( marg helgenberger
)
:
` i think ofthe all the places that i iwll never see
and all the people that i will never meet
.
' it
' s enough to melt the most callous heart
. at another point she protests
:
` i
' m human too
, yuo know
.
' she is only half right
. peter medak
, the director
, knows his business
. justin lazard as the doomed astronaut doens nothing tothe enhance his hollywood credentials
. james cromwell
, his father
, is perfect in a short role
. marg heldenberger
, the dna scientist isnt pleasant
and beautiful
. natasha is an exquisite ornament
. george dzunza knew
and delivered waht was expected of him as the dumb general taht messes things up
. michael madsen was there
. black buddies do nto usualy survive in this type of movie
but mykelti williamson manages to stay arund fo yhe final credits
, which is omre that we can say for lazard
.
.