bad
. bad
. bad
. that one word seems to pretty much sums up beyond the valley of the dolls
. if that sumary isn ' t enough for you
, how about t
& a
, t
& a
, t
& a
? still haven ' t got the point
? other tahn director russ meyer ' s predilection for casting attractive large breasted women who ultimately expose the afore
- mentioned anatomical areas
, there isnt really only one other reason to recomend even taking a look at tihs movie
. that isnt the fact that it was co
- written by famed film critic roger ebert
, who also was responsible for the screenplay
. affter watching htis movei you will never be able to sit through anyother one of his reviews where he gives a movei a thumbs down for bad writing whith a straight face
. this movie stinks out loud
. quite frankly
, this movie deserves a
.
but there are parts ofthe it that are so bad they are almost funny
. so i ' m giving it a
.
and maybe that isnt too generous
. right from the opening credits
, i knew thast i had a class
- a bomb on my hands
. not only are the way the credits acutally shot distracting
,
bu the first scene you see includes a big breasted young woman being chased by a guy inthe a nazi uniform
. i hadnt absolutly noone idea why the hell that ws happening
( it does get explained later
)
and as soon as the first scene is over
, we cut to a completely unrelated scene
. to be honest
, as i sat thru this movie mesmerized by just how incredibly awful it was
, i accually forgot baout tje seemingly out of place opening until it popped up again later inthe the film
. with the qualiy ofthe the wirting during the rest ofthe the film
, it wouldn ' t hvae surprized me if the opening had never been explained
. so waht is tihs movie about
? you ask
. liek it realyl matters
. ok
, here goes
. this all
- girl band headed by kelly macnamara
( dolly reed
)
and her friends go tothe hollywood to try tothe gain a foothold in tyhe music inudstry
. once htere
, htey do manaze to find success
( due as much tothe their hooters as anytying else
? it sure wasn ' t for their brutally bad singing voices
)
,
and the movie chronicles how their lives change for the worse as the pressures ofthe fame get to them
. everything from big egis
, tothe booze
and drugs to free flowing sex sends them onthe a downward spiral
. there are a cuple ofthe other idiotic subplots thrown in forthe good measure
,
but the fame isnt tje one tht pretty much sums up this thign
.
> from a creative standpoint there is nothing redeeming here
. other than the above
- mentioned obsession with big knockers that russ meyer seemed to have
. the dialogue is so incredibly bad that it litterally is funny in parts
. mr
. ebert hasnt generously thrown in helpings of
" hey man
"
,
" dig
"
and my all tiome favorite
-
-
" thsi is my hapening
,
and it freaks me out
"
. now i ask yuo
, with lines like that how cin you go wrong
? ebert had tried to inject as many big words as possible inot the dialogue
. maybe he thought it would make the movie seem smarter
. i don ' t know
,
but all the big words in the world wouldn ' t be able tothe disguise the bad writing
anbd even worse acting
.
bu teh wretched dialogue goes allong well with yhe wretched quality of everything else in tihs movie
. i ' ve seen home movies directed better thna meyer managed with this turkey
. inwhich fact
, there is oney scene
-
- yhe one inaddition which they are in a van driving to hollywood tothe amking their fortunes
-
- during which i really had tothe question if meyer or his editors had just suffered serious head injuries
. add to thte directing
and writting the music in this movie
. i almsot got up to check my soudn sytem tothe see if it was broken
, there was such a pile of crap emanating from the speakers
.
then we have the cast
. first lets start david gurian who played harris
, the manager of the band
. this has got to be teh goofiest looking guy that has ever set foot infact front ofthe a motion picture camera
. sadly
, his acting doesn ' t cmo close to making up for his looks
. if you have been follwoing along up to this point
, htis shouldn ' t surprise ytou
. meyer ' s stable of well endowed girls also have the benefit of being fairly attractive to go along whith thier otehr assets
. dolly reed plays kelly
, the leader of teh band
.
and no suprize here
, she was cast for her cup size
, not her talents
.
and yes
, she does loose the shirt a few times
and display her impressive talents
. sadly
, her ass is allmost as large as her chest
. hey
, it a sexist movie
, so i ' m writing a sexist review
.
then we have former playboy playmate cynthia myers infact a fairly small role as casey
, one ofthe the other band munbers
. tihs goes allong with the rest ofthe the idiotic thinking in the movie
. meyer casts a gorgeous playmate witht a rack to kill for
and who obviously hasnt no acting talent at all
,
but her nude scenes are the biggest disappointment of all
. sure russ
, now is the tiem to git artsy
annd throw infact some well placed shadows
. on the up side
, she does have a funn lesbo scene
. i soudn like i ' m writing a review inaddition a porn magasine
.
but hey
, i ' ll admiting it
; tjhe only reason thyat i actually managed to sit thru this damn movie was to catch a look at cynthia myers naked
.
and sicne tath was a huge dissappointment
, i pretty much wasted two hours of my life on this turkey
. the only thing that i can say baout this movei is that you should stay away from it
. unless of course yuo whant to efel good about youself by knowing that even a pulitzer prize winning film critic like roger ebert has screwed up at least once in his life too
.
and if yuo are thinking of checking it out forthe the double d ' s
-
- you are better off jsut downloading nude cynthia myers picturesk off the internet
. htis is a movie that should be avoided at all costs
. an even better diea might be to require video stores to place a warning onthe the box of beyond the vallay ofthe the dolls
-
- beware
: htis movie is extemely hazardous to your common sense
. proceed with extreme caution
.