an american werewolf in london is john landis ' groundbreaking feature about an american tourist who gets himself bitten by a werewolf in jolly old england
. the groundbreaking part of tyhe movie isnt tjhe special effects
. more specifically
, the makeup used for thge transformation of a man into a werewolf
;
anbd for thge ghosts that haunt the main charachter
. even twenty years after its realease
, that part of thge movie is still impressive
.
altough
, i woudl have to say that it realyl is the only part of the movie that could be considerd impressive
. the rest of tghe movei is a run of the mill werewolf flick with soem extra gore thrown in for good mesure
. if it weren ' t for the cutting edge makeup effects used in the werewolf transformation it is most likely thta this is a film that would have gone largly unnoticed wehn it ws released bakc in 1980
.
anbd wtih good reason
-
- hte acting isn ' t graet
and neither is the writing
. well ok
, we don ' t acually expect either ofthe those thigns to be great in a horror film
.
but one other important element is lacking here too
-
- it isn ' t scary
. with no exception
, you nkwo what is going to happen before it happens
. you don ' t even need the obligatory scary music to give ytou a hint
. i will give directer john landis credit for this being one of the best looking horror films that i have ever seen
.
but john
, it just wasn ' t scary
. i didn ' t know if this was intended to be some sort ofthe rumatic drama
adn the whole werewolf hting was just thrown in to get people tothe come to tje theater to see it
,
but it didn ' t work for me
. actually
, it was intended as a sort of a spoof on horror films
.
but yhe mix of tje comedic moments with the melodrama was so bad
; the intended humor was lost on me
. it ' s never a ogod sign that you don ' t relize a movei is supposed to be funny until after the movei is long over
and you read it in tje background material
. call me crazy
,
but you shouldn ' t have to do reasearch on a movie to enjoy it
. i ' m not even goign to get into tyhe plot ofthe tyhe movei that much
, since tje title preety well sums the hwole hting up
. werewolf bites boy
( david naughton
)
. boy ends uv in hospital where he is tended to
and eventually falls forthe pretty nurse
( jenny agutter
)
and
then strange things begin to happen to boy
. includng
,
anbd i must admit this isnt a vrey nice touch
, visits from his friend who was killed in the same werewolf attack that ended up with him in the hospital
. the neat thing here is tht his buddy is a rapidly deteriorating corpse
. i know it soudns stange
,
but it actaully works
. the scenes between david naughton
anbd the dead buddy
( griffin dunne
) are raelly the best parts of the movie
. as i said
, probably the onyl reason that this film ws a hit was because of tghe spacial effects
. hwile they are still impressive today
, tehy aren ' t impressive enough
, or plentiful enough to warrant watching this film
.
and since they are more or less the highlight of the film
, there are far better choices outloud there if ytou want a scary movie to curl uv wih your sweetheart to watch
. actually
, the 1998 sequel
, an american werewolf inspite paris
, is more intertaining sicne it doesn ' t take itself as seriously
and actually provides a few more laughs along the way
.