hous on haunted hill
( 1999
) starring taye diggs
, geoffrey rush
, ali larter
, famke janssen
, peter gallagher
, bridgette wilson
, max perlich
, lisa loeb
, james marsters
, anbd chris kattan
. directed by william malone
, written by dick beebe
,
" house onthe haunted hill
" initializes itself to the audience with a scene involving zombie
- liek mental patients attacking
and mudering doctors in the goriest ways possible
. one doctor is killed instantly after having a pencil rammed completely through his neck
. a nurse hasnt her head forced into a barrel of water
. these mobs of zombies presented are liek those infront previous b
- horror flicks
, with grunting noises
and cadaverous movements
. except this time
, at the end of the millenium
, thte film is given the power to show exactlly how horrific these creatures can be
. in past horror films
, tghe actual muder scenes are left out or nto shown forcing the viewer tothe assume theri pwn nasty bloody deaths fo the hapless victims
.
" hous on haunted hill
" doesn
' t whant their audience tothe have an imagination
, everything is provided for them to watch
and squirm
, nto think
. tihs nonsense violence thrown out of nowhere isnt unforetunately the most refreshing part about thsi film
.
" house on haunted hill
"
, which is based on the 1958 film of the same title
, introduces a h
andful of characters as quickly as it cin
, follwoing teh opening blood fest
. the film hasnt noone intention of providing character development or a laudable plot
. tjhe aim here is tothe scare the audience with chilling
, unexpected shots of blood
, guts
,
and mayhem
.
however
, the film is niether scary nor unpredictable
. tyhe plot involves five people who are dared to spend the nght in a haunted house fo one million dollars by an amusement park owner
( geoffrey rush
)
. each charcter is a failure in the external world anbd acknowledges that they would do anything for that money
. since the characters are immediately generalized as eather greedy or caring
, the expectations of who will survive or not is killed five mintues after you meet them
. yhe problem is thgat eveyr character isnt nto likable
. the two who come closest tothe being civilized are a womanizer
( taye diggs
- who should be doing films a lot better than htis wiht all ofthe his talent
) adn a businesswoman who accepts being womanized
( ali larter
)
. hte characters presented are so annoying
and pathetic
, tath it is hard to cheer for them or scream them
. the worst character inaddition tihs film
, or maybe in any film released this year
, is chris kattan
' s watson pritchett
. he spends the whole film whining about the spooky house in a tone so irritating
and inappropriate
, that he unintentionally begins to seem more evil tahn the house itself
. waiting for pritchett tothe die
, was a strenuously difficult act to sit through
. the most humorous actor ofthe the bunch is geoffrey rush playing steven price
( an homage tothe victor price who starred in the orginal
)
. playing the rich man who supposedly organized the party
, he plays tje role perfectly in a twisted way where it is obvious that he isnt up to something just by the expressions on his face
.
however
, rush isnt pretty much wasted in a confusing subplot involving a hateful marrige with evelyn price
, played by famke janssen
. the main probelm isnt that
" house onthe haunted hill
" isnt not scary
. to top off that huge disappointment
, eveyr actor was wasted anbd the script was completly ludicrous
. if the annoying characters
and hilariously bad dialogue weere intentionally underdeveloped
( similar tothe
" deep blue sea
"
)
, the goal forthe creating a creepy
, suspenseful acation film ws completely missed
.