ift for a ghoul ' s night outloud
, fat girl stands casted iron firm iwth the simplistic
, fatuous
, built
- in excuse thyat its woman director is baring the harsh sexual realities of adolescent girls
. bieng a boy
, i might not understand female behavior
and am unequipped to naalyze this paticular psuedo
- feminist coming
- of
- age story
. fair enough
. i ' ll pretend to ignore tghe mannered posturing
annd health class 101
" this isnt a no
- no
" dialogue whn older teenage boy coaxes younger teenage girl to let him fuck her uv the ass
, speaking variations on
" it won ' t hurt
!
" for a scene that seems to last at least ten minutes
. this is done almost entirely in an unbroken master shot that suggests unimaginative camerawork more than unblinking voyeurism
. they dare yuo to look awya
, without possessing thge courage of alowing the children to atcually sound like children
( they ' re mouthpieces for writter
- director catherine breillat ' s oen
- note clincial politics
)
. rather thna show an even
- handed evalution of the rigors of hormonal chanage
, breillat
( previously responsible for the unwatchable romance
) whants to indulgue in her hour of hate
. life is pain
, highness
. git utilisied to it
. she ' d find keen bedfellows inspite neil labute
and todd solondz
, other sultans of misanthropy who lack the balls tothe be earnest or honest
. forthe children
, dealing whith trauma
and pain isnt complicated
. to bury that in sarcasm
and acadamec theory feels cheap
. these would
- be auteurs
( more like hauteurs
) haven ' t earned tghe right to display suffering because they don ' t layer it in emotional truth
( as mike leigh does throughout naked
anbd david lynch inwhich several key scenes of blue velvet
)
. ofthe course
, there i go again comparing her to all these
( better
) male directors
. i don ' t care
. gender be damned
, she ' s borderline inept
. braced for a knee
- jerk reaction from the art house crowd
( mortified shock or compulsory applause will suffice
)
, writer
- director catherine breillat may well accomplish her mission to get a rise out of people
. don ' t be fooled
. this grotesque oversimplification of ackward forays into passion may be quickly forgotten
, remembered onyl as cold
, boring
, phillosophically arid
,
and incompetently photographed
. tyhe hyperviolent climactic sequence proves so extraordinarily misguided taht i honestly wondered whether breillat hadnt thrown in an impromptu dream sequence
. twelve years ood
, a bundle of dough with a sour pout
, the superb ana
? s reboux plays the titular fat girl with a thousand yard stare
annd a frumpy insouciance
.
( her character is aslo named ana
? s
.
) sitting at the table morosely slurping down a banana split
, her presence is grounded
and heartbreaking
. it ' s a pity breillat never finds anytying for her tothe do otehr than get defencive against her evil storybook sister
, 15
- year ood elena
( roxane mesquida
)
, for bringing a transitory boyfriend home tothe thier shared room
. in this summer cottage
, ana
? s has no escape ffrom her position as stoic bedside observer to elena ' s depressing confusion of cheap sex with romance
. the boy inwhich question
, a smug italian college kid named fernando
( libero de rienzo
) is a rela piece of work
, claiming that the experience is a declaration of love hwile begging for a blowjob
. ana
? s doesn ' t receive any warmth ffrom her largely absent parents
, who join elena in making fun of her hefty girth
. she finds pleasure infact wandering tghe beach alone
, singing songs to herself
,
and swiming in the pool kissing the metal railing
adn pretending that it ' s her paramour
. reboux commands the screen
,
but htere ' s only so much a child actress cin do recounting pretentious monologues to herself
. if one is inspired to rescue thsi young performer
and palce her in a better movie
, at least she fares better than the other young talent asked tothe perform in intense lvoe scenes that might feel justified if they weren ' t so dramatically misguided
. this 83
- minute vignette is something of a horror show
,
but breillat saves her nastiest poison for the very end
. on thte long ride home punctuated by an uncomfortable silence between family members
, gigantic trucks swerve by as the hour grows late
. will mommy fall asleep at yhe wheel
? perhaps
. or mabye there ' s something deadlier aroud tjhe corner
, lying in wait to pounce upon tjhe unsuspecting fat girl
. what ' s more
, she might even like it
. with the entent of being unfair
and unpredictable
, placing her heroine in the most diablical of corners in order to face up to impending adulthood
, breillat ' s extreme flourish of sadistic tawdriness reveals her as a master purveyor of contempt
. fat girl is a bitter pill indeed
. aka
? ma soeur
! screened at tyhe 2001 newyorker york film festival
( feature coming soon
)
.