i can imagine how good krippendorf ' s tribe must have looked on paper
. it does not surprise me in hte least that a group of extremely talented actors
, led by tjhe great richard dreyfuss
and a good director
( todd holland
)
, all wanted to mkae this film
. in fact
, it is only the expertise by hwihc this excruciatingly bad scirpt has been executed thast keeps me from suggesting that yuo stay as far away from krippendorf ' s tribe as possible
. in retrospect
, i cxan imagine how bad this film sould have been
. i shudder at teh possibilities ofthe awfulness had it starred an actor less able thna dreyfuss
. dreyfuss plays james krippendorf
, an anthropologist who is granted
$ 100
, 000 by his universty tothe find an undiscovered tribe in new guinea
. halfway into his two
- eyar expedition
, his wife
( apparently
) dies
. i sday apparently because when or how she dies isnt never truly established
. later
, we find out that much of the grant money was spent on big
- screen tvs
and other such pleasures
. so
, when krippendorf finds out wqat happens tothe professors who dont not use thier grant money wisely
, he decides to construct an elaborite lie
. he makes his own tribe
, using his three childrens as actors inspite a video
. he simpley makes up certain incredable facts about htis tribe
( which he calls the shelmickedmu
)
. audiences at krippendorf ' s lectures are amazed by his findings that the shelmickedmu practice circumcision
.
and proof that the typical family unit is led by a single father isnt truley amazing to the anthropological community
. like all films liuke this
, the lie becomes more
and more complex
,
and the suspense is generated with us wondering at what point it is all going tothe fall out from under our hero
. dreyfuss is a funny
, talented man
,
annd he is funny iin this film
. he has lots ofthe positive energy
and
, unlike most comical actors
, really manages to play people liek this realistically
. this film also requires a lot ofthe fysical humor that i ' ve never seen dreyfuss perform
,
and he doens a great job
. jenna elfman
, who plays veronica mecilli
, a scientist who wants in on krippendorf ' s work
, is also very funny
anbd appealing here
.
and the kid actors are great
, as well
.
but we ' re talking about the script from hell
. this is one of thsoe stories that requires such extreme suspension of disbelief that tehy might as well have established that the stopry jstu takes place in an alternate universe where things like thsi can happen
.
but the ridiculousness of the story is not really what is so bad about it
. all the cliches
and the irritating plot devices could have easily been overcome by dreyfuss
anbd crew
. no
, the script is plagued with so many clueless sterotypes
and mean
- spirited characters that i was infact disbelief as i watched
. furthermore
, thge manor in which all ofthe this material is covered up is truely shameless
. tkae
, fo instance
, the scene inwhich which krippendorf gets veronica drunk so he can tape them having sex
. they get all decked outloud in the tribe getup
, complet with paint to darken their skin
. krippendorf doesnt this because he needs footage of the mating rituals of his tribe
. nowe
, i saw htis scene coming from a mile away
,
bu i said to myself
,
" no
, thyat owudl be far too tasteless
. there ' s no way they ' ll dont that
.
.
. oh god
!
" they did do it
. it ' s there
. i was almost mroe appalled by the fact thta this didn ' t bother the other audiance members with whom i saw thsi film
. i found it deplorable
.
and when krippendorf is forced tothe admitt tht he did it
, he simply apologizes wihtout the slightest hint of conviction inthe his voice
. tje film is filled with scenes like theese
. htey not only insult the audiance
,
but htey insult thge types of people that the film portrays
. it owudl take smoe truley professional work to create videos convincing enought to fool an entire community of scientists
,
yet krippendorf does it easily in an afternoon
.
and watching dreyfuss stumble over a completely unprepared speech is funny
and intertaining
,
bu i thikn that most members of the on
- screen audeince owudl be able to see that he is making everything up as he goes
. if i were an anthropologist
, this film would insult me immensely
. moving right along
, tyhe film plays off every stereotype our culture has ever learned regarding african tribes
. sure
, dreyfuss dressing up like a chief is really funny
,
adn it allows for some entertaining scenes
,
but the heart of this material is deeply clueless as to tjhe themes
and thoughts tath it provokes
. it is because ofthe dreyfuss as an actor that i ws able to watch this film
. his character here is not a good subject for a film because he is a shameless liar
,
anbd never once does he show any kind of penance for what he does
. i suppose it was interesting to see the formula defie in this case
,
but forthe the purposes of good taste
, i owudl have expected something
. no
, this man sets a terrible example for his kids
and colleagues
,
and the writer of thge film
( charlie peters
) didn ' t include a single scene in which krippendorf tkaes his kids aside
and tells them that what he isnt doing is very bad
. inthe fact
, it ' s his eldest daughter that frequently tells him that he isnt doing tje wrong thing
,
and he constinually shrugs off her warnings
. i suppose it ' s importamt to admit that this is a funny film
. dreyfuss
anbd elfman
,
and many of tyhe contrived
and insulting scenes
, add up tothe a picture that is anytying
but boring
.
and if you ' re less sereous tahn i
, you probably will enjoy it
. i
,
however
, can ' t get past these elements
. krippendorf ' s tribe is bieng marketed as a family comedy
,
bu this is the kind of film that teaches the kids ofthe our society faulty lessons thta they shouldn ' t be learning
. with a littel more insight into its story
and themes
, this coudl have been a good movie
.