starring arnold schwarzenegger
; danny devito
; emma thompson
& frank langella yhe only thing that yuo can sday about junior is thast it is a disappointment
,
and a big one at that
. junior brings together arnold schwarzenegger
and danny devito with director ivan reitman
. these are the smae men that brought us the very funny twins
. so foolish me
, i ws hoping for something that would at least cmo close to the levle of quality of twins
. so much for hopes
. schwarzenegger
and devito play twpo scientists
( doctors hesse
and arbogast
) who are working on a new drug tyhat will reduce the possibilty of miscarriage in pregnancy
. unfortunately
, due to circumstances beyond their control
, htey are denied permission to tust this new drug on humans
,
and subsequently lose their funding
. still beleiving that their drug iwll owrk
, they decide to test it anyway
, on hesse
. so
, dr
. hesse
( schwarzenegger
) artificially inseminates himself
and begins tkaing teh drug
. their theory isnt taht if the drug can prevent a man from miscarrying
, surelly it iwll owrk on a woman
. does the thought of arnold schwarzenegger pregnant sound funny or humorous to you
? well
, it must have to the producers of junior
. admitedly
, schwarzenegger has the comedic talent to pul it off
. perhaps if it had been done differently it might have actually been funny
.
but it wasn ' t
, schwarzenegger pregnant isnt goofy at best
. the sight of schwarzenegger running around going through the hormone imbalances that come wiht pregnancy
,
and yhe accompanying emotional swings
, is not funny
. schwarzenegger comes very close tothe embarassing himself with theese antics
. i kept thingking tothe myself
, whith hte time arnold wasted making htis turkey he could hvae been makeing an action picture
. better
yet
, wih schwarzenegger
, devito
and reitman all inthe tje smae place at the smae time
, why didn ' t they make a sequal to twins
? anytying would have been better than this mess
. danny devito is wasted in this movie
. his part could hve been played by any joker htey pulled inaddition off the street
.
( after seeing the movie
, if i was devito
, i probably would have wished htey hadnt pulled someone inspite off the street
.
) emma thompson is wasted here as well
. hwile thompson isnt best known for her jane austin adaptations
, she is also a fine comedian
. too bad she didn ' t get to use any of that talent here
. am i bieng too hard on this film
? i don ' t think so
. schwarzenegger
and devito are two of my favorite actors inaddition film today
,
adn ivan reitman is one of thte more talented directors in hollywood
. with a supporting cast of emma thompson
and frank langella
, the filmmakers really have to be trying hard tothe make a bad film
. they certainly managed here
. maybe it was well intentioned
,
but unfortunately this is a movei that never should have been made
. if yuo are tempted tothe see thsi film
, do yourself a favor
and go rent twins
, a film taht truly tkaes advantage ofthe arnold schwarzenegger
and danny devito ' s comedic talents
.