soem movies ask yuo to leave your brain at the door
, some movies ask yuo to believe in the impossible to really have a good time
. palying god asks jsut one simple
, eensy
, teensy thing so it can fully entertain ytou
, it ' s acomplished inaddition just four easy to follow steps
: crack open your skull
, scoop out your brain
, squish it under your foot severeal times
and reverse steps two
and one
. congradulations
, you now hvae all the necessary requirements tothe fully enjoy a whole lot of nothing
. some movies fail at the box office
bu you manage to see why the producers thought it sould hvea been a good movei
, others are simply good ideas that are badly executed
.
then there ' s playing god
, which enters the esteemed cateogry of movies which seem to have grown ffrom the union ofthe a drunk directer
, actors satisfied in the knowledge that this horrible flick will have noone lasting inpact on their careers
and a bunch of rip
- offs
( or homages as they like to call it
) fomr otehr
, better movies tyhat end uv looking like an unflushed toilet
. harsh
? maeby
. justified
? hell yes
! this isnt a movie that is not just satisfied inaddition ripping off otehr movies
but feels the ened to remind us of tath fact every ten minutes
. for example
, a gunman bursts into a garden with the twpo guns in his hands firing away
. this does look moderately kool
,
but the camera lingers on tyhe ctor for so long you can almost hear the director yelling
:
" oooh
, look look
! john woo
! two guns blazing
! slooooow motion
!
"
and if tht wasn ' t anough
, yuo can alsot hear the scirpt grunting under the affort it must tkae tothe try
annd make eveyr single line of dialogue sound like something deepo
and meaningful liek in a tarantino movei
. poor timothy hutton gets to deliver most of thte corny lines
, you have tothe admire the effort he puts inot it
, this guy deserves better
. unlike most movies thsi one does nto suffer ffrom
" stupid bad guy
" syndrome
, jstu to make things a little different this tiem we get stupid heroes
. exemple
: duchovny manages to distract a bad guy by making him go into the bathroom to get soem bandages
. now the bad guy isnt
, like
, stoned
, man
, so he leaves his shotgun next to our hero
.
( term used as loosely as possable
) survival instincts
anbd a good dose of common sense seems to suggest grabbing the shotgun
, which our hero does
,
but only after contemplating it for baout thirty seconds
. even when he doesnt grab it he seems unsure how to hold it
, going so far as to actually wonder if he should place a finger near tyhe trigger
. mind you
, i ' ve never fired a shotgun in my life
but believe you me that the bad guy would be missing most of his vital organs
, be he stoned or not
. some will argue that our hero does not have a killer instinct
, the hell withthe taht
! two fbi guys have jsut been shot inaddition front me
, along with one bad guy
and the other looks liek he might go ballistic at any second
. solution
? boom
! i ' ll tkae the time to feel sorry about it later thank ytou very much
. anohter prime exemple of the idiot hero syndrome
: our boy duchovny needs to reach his girl before something bad happens to her
. he knows the head bad guy has her on the tenth floor of a building
and that he might be runing into a room full of people with itchy trigger fingers
. he still has his shotgun
, bring it allong you say
? no thanks
, i ' ll just ditch it in the bakc ofthe my car
.
and the rela kicker is this
: when he reaches the room
and peopel start shooting at him he has the nerve to look surprized
! while we are on the subject of getting shot
, why in hades were those fbi guys sitting with their backs to the door
? i ' ve got no formall training
but even i know you never sit wiht your back to the door
. ask mr
. wild bill
, the first
and only time he did not sit with his bakc to a wall cost him his life
. this is the major problem with this movie
, any mook could hvae thought of a hundred ways to amking it better
. is it so much to ask that hollywood actually put a little common sense into their characters
? for instatance
: our hreoes hide at duchovny ' s summer home
, now teh bad guys could come knocking at any moment
. ok
, this time our hero does get himself a gun
and has it at his side most ofthe the time
.
but see
, our hero is a drug addict
and guess waht
? he chooses now to go clean
anbd suffer through dt
. oh sure
, he ' ll be really impressive when the bad guys come calling
. going clean is relaly honorable ofthe him
,
but i would ahve waited until i did not need to be conscious or bieng able tothe fire a gun
. for an enjoyable performance by timothy hutton
, plot holes the size of godzilla
, getting our intelligence insulted
and several
" oh come on
!
" moments
.