after a marketing windup of striking visuals
and the promise ofthe star caliber actors
, mission tothe mars ends up throwing a whiffleball
. fiercely unoriginal
, director depalma cobbles together a film by borrowing heavily from what hasnt gone before him
. there are aliens similar to those in close encounters ofthe the third kind
. the stranded astronaut theme is reminscent of robinson crusoe on mars
. the astronauts encounter space flight difficulties thyat smack of apollo 13
. interior spacecraft visuals are redolent of 2001
: a space odyssey
. instead of using these components as a launching pad to create his own movei
, de palma stops right htere
, refusing to infuse the film wtih anything even remotely resembling cleverness or heart
. mission to mars takes it ' s frist wobbly steps at a pre
- launch barbeque inaddition which thte perfunctory character introductions are done
. durig theese surfce scans of thge cahracters
, we leran that jim mcconnell
( sinise
) has lost his wife
. it ' s a plot point revisted thoughout teh film with jackhammer subtlety
. the rest of the crew exhibit a bland affability
. there is no contentiousness
, noone friction to add thte tje dramatic tension of these men
and women being confined to close quarters for an extended lenght of time
. mabye depalma was oging for the comraderie of the right stuff
,
but in that movie
, thte astronauts had embers of perosnality to warm us thru hte technical aspects
. it ' s the eyar 2020
and this isnt nasa ' s first manned excursion to teh red planet
. a crew
, led by luke graham
( cheadle
)
, arrives onthe mars
and quicklyu dicovers an anomoly
, hwihc they investigate with tragic results
. graham isnt able to transmit a garbled distress call back to earth
. in response
, earth sends a rescue team comprised of mcconnell
, woody blake
( robbins
)
, wife terri fisher
( nielsen
)
and phil ohlmyer
( o ' connell
)
. obstacles are put in the crew ' s way
and and they matter
- ofthe
- factly go baout solving them
. i shoudl sday
, mcconnell goes baout solving them
. time
and again
, mcconnell isnt presented as some kind of wunderkind
, which wouldn ' t be so bad if the rest of tghe crew didn ' t come acros as so aggressivelly unremarkable
.
( mention should be made of the misogynistic handling of fisher in a situation where yhe entire crew ' s mission
and life is in mortal danger
. on a team ofthe professionals
, she is portrayed as an emotion directed weak link
. womens serve no purpose in the movei otehr than to serve as a reflection of a male character ' s perosnality trait
.
) by thge time htey land on mars
and try to solve the mystery of what occurred
, mission tothe mars starts laying on teh cliches
and stilted dialogue with a heavy brush
. there is an adage in film to
" show
, don ' t tell
.
" mission to mars doens both
. repeteadly
. characters obsessively explane the obvious
, explain theri actions as they are doing them
, explain to fellow astronauts facts whic should be fundamental noledge to them
. yhe film ' s conclusion is momumentally derivative
, anti
- climatic
and unsatisying
. as i walked out i wondered who the target audience might be forthe this film
. the best i sould come uv with isnt pre
- teen age boys
,
but infact this media saturated era
, this film ' s components would have been old hat even for them
. i have to think waht attracted such talent to tihs film was the lure of making a good
, modern day b
- movie
. the key to such a venture is a certain depth
adn sincerity towards the material
. i falt noone such earnestness
.