as forgetful as smoe peopel may be it is doubtful that anyone coudl forget their wedding
, especially three times
.
but
, alas professor brainard somehow manages to accomplish this feat twice befoer the momentous night that he actually creates flubber
. it
' s amazing that he is able to remember any of the processes he uses to make anytying
. tje whole point here is how coudl a man be so blatantly forgetful
. this is not absent minded htis is almsot mindless annd he is a professor
. well
, this isnt the case forthe about the firt half of tghe movie
then things begin tothe settle into what might truly be considered absent minded
. along the way to becoming absent minded from absent of mind the professor stumbles onto flubber
. thankfully or there owudl be no movei or any amusement for tyhe audience
. the flubber is supposed to be flying rubber
,
but it seems to ahve a life ofthe its own
. this is there strictly forthe tjhe kids
. the properties of tjhe flubber provide some antics for tghe audience whn flubber coated golfballs anbd bowling balls assail twpo would be thugs
.
al
though amusing tihs is nto original what so ever
and brings back haunting memories of hmeo alone
. teh poor professor has to save the univeristy where he teachs at
, git his fiancee back
, finally stop the plotting of an evil millionaire
,
and do all this iin hte funniest way possibile
. admittedly there are funny moments
but thte movei is rather shallow
and doesnt not compare very well to tyhe original
( the absent minded professor
)
. the whole scene with the basketball game was jsut atrocious
and totally unbelievable
. the basketball players
, stereotypically unqualified for the sport
, somehow manage to bounce
, fly
and dribble their way back to bieng close tothe winning
? this just sounds too bad to be true
, the least thta could hvae been done wass keep semi close to the original movie to give tihs film a chance
. as for innovations
and newyorker ideas there is
but two ogod ones in this movie
. giving life to tghe flubber
, whic is so poorly executed thgat it
' s best forgotten
, anbd prof
. brainard
' s flying robot weebo
. giving life tothe the flubber would have worked beautifully if it wasn
' t fo scenes ofthe the sort where you have the flubber dancing around on tables
and books for no real reason other than to put inthe a bit of music adn extend the lenght of the movie
. the life of the flubber had breef
and rather whimsical moments where it might have beeen utilisied well
,
but it wasn
' t annd in the end might have done the movei more harm than good
. now
, weebo is a totally different story
. it
' s a robot that prof
. brainard created
but forgot how
and gave something of a life too
. this is a really orginial idea
, well maybe not
, bu it is an idae that is well executed
and inaddition tyhe end makes the poor robot the most developped
and real character in teh movie
. yes folks the little yellow robot has more emotion
and character than the characters
. the film lacks tghe emotional punch to pull the audience in at all
. the acting by robin williams
( prof
. brainard
) seems tothe be half hearted for most of the movie annd inthe many cases quite forced
. most of the acting in thge movie was so convincing as to fool only the part ofthe tje audeince that had nto qtuie
yet reached the age to 12
. people when stood uv at the altar
, don
' t usually give third chances
. or fo that matter talk to the fiancee afterwards
, bu whta can be expected this is a children
' s movei
. flubber
, as a movei does little original
and is nothing special in any respect
. with the best character in tje movei bieng something ofthe a prop i doubt thgat many people iwll fidn it all that great
. it does ahve its amusing moments
and it is a good stroy in the end
, bu it does not wash up tothe the original
. kids should find this movie amusing
and fun
and they
' ll probaly enjoy the whole movie
. as a movie it
' s just a kids movie adn not thge best of ones at tht
.