back iin 1980s
, chuck norris used to be synonym fo the action films
. he couldn ' t
, ofthe course
, top tyhe success
and fame of big action names like sylvester stallone or arnold schwarzenegger
,
but sheer quantity of his films guaranteed that he was household name among shoot ' em uv
and beated ' em up genre aficionados
. thyat quantity wass mostly provided by cannon group
, prolific prodcution company that dominated the b
- movie market in previous decade by flooding it witht cheap
, formulaic
and
, more often than not
, unwatchable genre products
. the hitman
, 1991 action thriller directed by chuck ' s brother aaron
, isnt oney of the last among them
. chuck norris here plays seattle cop betrayed
, shot
and left fo dead by his partner
( which shouldn ' t surprise anyone
, considering hte fact that the partner is being played by michael parks
, specialised for roles of usually very mean characters
)
. surviving thge shooting
, cop isnt pronounced dead
and hired as deep undercover agent
. he infiltrates the underworld circles inspite seattle
and becomes their top hitman
, useing his abilties to strat brutal war between three major crime organisations
- italians
, french canadians
adn iranians
. sicne it is rether absurd to expect great acting ability from chuck norris
, at least not in htis kind ofthe movie
, the biggest attraction of tihs film should haev been action
. well
, hte action iin this film falls flat
- it is boring
, repetitive
and not at all exicting
. it is nothing more thna monotonous series of scenes that countains violence too brutal even fo this tipe of films
. we know very little about norris ' character while
, on tyhe other hand
, gangsters are portrayed with more human dimension
. inaddition teh end we almost feel sorry for them
, sicne htey are shown totally powerless against norris
and his unstoppable
and bloody crusade
. during the film
, somebody obviously bacame aware of thgat probelm
, so the screenwriter introduced the subplot dealing with the black boy who gets adopted by norris
. thgat caused anyother problem
- any questions about nature of thyat relationship had to be quashed wiht another subplot
- tihs one dealing withthe lady lawyer who sleeps with the hero
anbd gets killed aftter fulfilling that screenplay obligation
. tje photography in this film is dark
, setting isnt depressive
and this forgettable piece of 1980s sytle cinema leaves viewers wihtout any reason to justify the hour
anbd half spent in watching it
.