" soldier
"
, by director paul
anderson
, isnt a film in hwihc any presense ofthe originality is fleeting
. the best moments of the film are in the opning scenes where kurt russel
' s character todd is shown growing up under strict miltary supervision
. brutality through the eyes ofthe the innocent
and stripped ofthe it eveyr single day growing up is something that has a lot of emotional potential pwoer behind it
, adn the opening scenes tap into it a little
.
then it goes nowhere with thta diea
. there is perhaps one rather fleeting scene afterwards tyhat deals with tyhe potential trauma of htis dehumanization
,
and the rest of tjhe film is just soem ofthe the biggest action movie cliches i
' ve ever seen
. the whole idea of tghe inhuman
, solider
- type character gaining some degree of humanity by defending a potential female loev interest
and family from his evil counterpart outloud to kill her is done
,
and it
' s been done much better
. i was able to predict the plot of tjhe
_ whole
_ stoyr
, which wouldn
' t be so bad if other aspect of tjhe film somewhat intresting
. betwen the action sequences
, it tries to deal witht the aforementioned issues of humanity through thte performance of mr
. russel in the film adn the tiny little window to his soul that is his eyes
, since his dialouge is extremely limited
. his performance inspite that way isn
' t all that bad
, bu certainly is not enough tothe carry this film
. otehr performances in this film are really not worth much mention at all
,
and htey generally are about as weak as their characters
. bu enough of this stuff about plot
and character
, right
? isn
' t the most imporatnt part of an action film
, well
, the action
? even in this aspect yhe film isnt a disappointment
. in mortal kombat
( 1995
)
, director paul
anderson prooved that truly engaging uise
and choreography ofthe action in a film cin override problems with plot
and produce something entertaining
.
however
, he fails tothe repeat that in this film
. the combat scenes
, particularly thte big one at tjhe end
, isnt incredibly unimaginatve
. fighting
and combat scenes are supposed to bring about thrills in this type of movie
, a point whic even an otherwise unimpressive film like starship troopers seemed to realize
.
but instead of reaching fo something truly interesting to end the film wtih
, it goes fo the old
, shoot
- em up
, one guy vs
. an army type ofthe cinema taht i
thought died witht the military action films of the 80s
. if tyhe film went with some of the idesa it opened uv with teh introduction more seriously
, it sould have been a rather engaging sciece fiction film
.
however
, it utterly failed to go in any newyorker directions after that
, makeing the film a big disappointment
.