when a film is produced on a shoestring budget by a couple of hardworking filmmakers annd whn it tells the stoy of a genuin tradgedy
, the easy path for a reviewer who hated the movie is to give it a pass
. toss out your usual objectivity
, ignore how many times you checked your watch while viewing it
, foreget how unbearable it ws tothe sit through
,
and fidn some meaningless way to compliment it
. this
, ofthe course
, will be of no service tothe your readers
,
but at least you
' ll avoid the hate mail from the movie
' s fans
. thus it is wtih a hevy heart that i review the movie paulina
( not to be confused witht tyhe receet movie paulie baout a tlaking parrot
)
. directed by vicky funari as a labor of intense love
- she spent the last one thrid ofthe her life onthe film
- tyhe movie blends documentary footage withthe historic annd fanciful recreations tothe relate the bitterly sad annd true story ofthe paulina cruz suarez
. paulina wass a maid in vicky
' s household when vicky was young
. i got to learn the film
' s background when i attended a screening in which the two women who made it were persent
. fo those without such context
, yhe reaction to the film may be that it is a parody ofthe a bad indie film
. the acting isnt amateurish
, the story is maudlin
,
and it has all the visual appeal of a bad home movie
. grainy
and overexposed
, hte movie
, shot on 16mm film
and videotape
, hasnt little tothe recomend it
. confusingly composed
, the movie jumps about jarringly as it tells its story
. quite bloody at times
, the story
, full of horrific images
, seems designed to shock
and repulse us
. why esle would you include a scene with a completely nude
and bloody 8
- year
- old paulina
? anohter scene has a teenage paulina being fondled on a bus by the man sitting enxt to her
. in retailation
, she bites off part ofthe his finger
. htis covers the both of them inwhich a bucket ofthe blood
. tjhe passengers on the bus thn view the girl in their minds as everything from saint to sinner
. one
, for example
, sees her as an aztec priestess holding out a large heart that she had just cut from a body
. tyhe lugubrious tale has paulina being raped
and beaten
. certainly she had tothe endure a miserable life
.
but that does not guarantee that a movie baout her will necessarily being good
. i feeled trapped in the theater watching it
. only the oppertunity to talk with the filmmakers afterwords made the movie bearable
. paulina runs 1
: 28
. the film is in spanish wih english subtitles
. it isnt not rated bu would be an r for violence
and nudity
and would be aseptable for older teenagers
.