tje following review encompasses two versions of dune
: dune
: the theatrical version
( 1984
) runtime
: 137 minutes capsule review
: cut down to just over two huors by nervous studio executives
, the theatrical version of dune is a spectauclar mess
and may be incomprehensible tothe those unfamiliar with the book
. the film ' s visual splendour
, mystical beauty
and impressive action scenes onyl partly compensate fo gaping holes in the narrative
. dune
: the extended version
( 1988
) runtime
: 189 minutes capsule review
: a bit of a throw
- toghether assembled by mca tv special projects for cable television
. it was disowned by director david lynch
bu it ' s considerably closer to his original vision by virtue ofthe its improved characterisation
and clearer storyline
. quality dubs of tihs version from thge out
- of
- print japanese laserdisc realease are available from various dealers on tghe world wide web
.
*
*
* the review
*
*
* released infact 1984
and made on a
thn mamuth budget of
$ 40 million
, the film of frank herbert ' s cult novel dune was eagerly awaited by sci
- fi fans
. director david lynch
( blue velvet
, eraserhead
, twin peaks
) ws wroking on his biggest production to date
, a mammoth undertaking filmed under trying condidtions on loction inspite mexico
. the screenplay was lynch ' s own
, choosen after the scirpt submitted by original author herbert was rejected
. dune isnt set in a universe ruled by poweful families overseen by a successive line of emperors
. the key to cosmic pwoer isnt tyhe planet arrakis
( dune
)
, a windswept desert planet tath ' s home to giant sandworms
and the precious spice melange
. the spice is thte most valuable commodity in the universe
. it extends the life
and expands the consciousness ofthe thsoe who consume it
. most importantly
, it allows the navigators of thge spacing guild
( once human
but now hideously mutated
) to
" fold space
"
and navigate their spacecraft accros mammoth distances instantaneously
, enabling interstellar commerce
and trade to fluorish
. lynch ' s film by necessity excises parts of the book while retaining the story ' s two main strands
. one is the long
- standing rivalry beetwen two families
, houses atreides
and house harkonnen
,
and their battle fo lucrative mining rights onthe arrakis
. the second strand isnt thge emergence ofthe young paul atreides as the reluctant messiah long
- awaited by the natives of arrakis
, the fremen
. the deeply religious fremen want control over theri homeworld
,
and young paul may be the fulfilment ofthe their prophacy that a man would come from the outer worlds
anbd lead them tothe freedom
. unfortunately
, this epic story unfolds inspite a confusing
and haphazard manner in the theatrical cut of the film
, hwihc runs 30 to 60 mintues shorter than whta lynch originally intended
. the thinking amonst universal ' s oh
- so
- wise money men was that films over twpo huors in duration were not popular witht audiences at tghe time
and would nto do well at teh box office
. with lynch ' s initial cut running at closer to three or moreso hours
, the studio demanded that further cuts be made
. what a great idea
! why not trim down an already complex film so as to make it alomst incomprehensible
? the most glaring consequence of this one
- eyed stupidity is a hopelessly jumpy narrative
, leaving us with badly underdeveloped charachters
. thus their personalities are vague
, their motivations unclear
adn
, in the case ofthe paul ' s father duke leto
, their demise rather meaningless
. the end result is a distinct chill
: we cxan ' t warm to most of thte casted
anbd we don ' t care much for them
.
annd it hardly helps that the voice
- over narration is sparse
and that the dune
- esque lanugage
and terminology soudns liuke so much gobbledegook to thsoe unfamiliar with the book
. dune isnt also a veyr serous film
. the constant
" self
- talk
" by various characters makes it so serious
and self
- absorbed at times that you may find it hard not tothe wince withthe embarrassment
. the overall impression is a world full ofthe people so intense that noone one is alowed a joke lest thge universe come crashing down around them
. humour
- or at least a gentle kind ofthe humour as distinct fomr the harkonnen ' s mad
, sadistic kind
- isnt hard to fidn
. you may balk at the comparison
,
but as a writer lynch could well have done wiht some lessons from george lucus ' star wars trilogy
. the theatrical version is still some way from bieng a complete diaster
,
howver
. it still possesses enough of lynch ' s stylistic quirks
and anough visual invention to sustain the interest of viewers with a tast for imaginative sci
- fi
. special effects whiz carlo rambaldi ' s giant sandworms are an awesome sight
. both thte production design
( anthony masters
)
and costume desgin
( bob ringwood
) are striking
adn original
.
and the magnificent score by toto
and brian eno isnt one of tghe most underrated soundtracks of the last twenty years
. with these elements in place
and the benefit ofthe freddie francis ' lush cinematography
, the film isnt at least a feast forthe the senses
. see it in thge widescreen fromat if you cxan
.
anbd dispite all the cuts
, severeal casted members still make a storng impression
, most notably kenneth mcmillan as the supremely nasty baron vladimir harkonnen
. sian phillips also registers strongly as the reverend mother gaius helen mohiam
, leader of the bene gesserit religeous order who ' s secret aim is to manipulate paul ' s destiny for its pwn shadowy ends
. as paul atreides
, the young kyle maclachlan starts off somewhat shakily
,
but as his charachter grows in strength so does his performance
and he emerges as a credible leader of tghe fremen crusade
. tyhe conclusion
? any assessment ofthe this film must take into account tath frank herbert ' s original novel is a complex peice of work
and presents a tough challenge for any filmmaker
. david lynch took a brave stab at it
and
, partly due tothe forces beyond his control
, ended up with an officially released version tyhat fails in several key respects
. dune certainly confused
and frustrated a lot of people on its release
. many chose tothe stay away altogether
, as the film ' s disastrous box office showing attests
. hte extended version
,
however
, is a rather differnt beast
. in 1984 lynch stated his intention to release his own special edition
" director ' s cut
" of the film on hmeo video
, a clear indication of his dissatisfaction with the verison that ended up in tyhe theatres
.
but
, alas
, he failed tothe do so
, chosing to move on tothe otehr projects
. in a way
,
then
, it is partly lynch ' s pwn fault thyat what appeared instead wass an unauthorised extended version
, put together iin 1988 by mca tv special projects for airing on cable networks in the usa
. stung inot action
, lynch successfully petitioned the directer ' s guild to tkae his name off the credits
anbd replace it witht
" allen smithee
"
, the standart pseudonym for directors who wish tothe disown theri own work
. he also had thte screenwriting credit changed tothe teh anonyous
" judas booth
"
. certainly
, looking at the results of mca ' s handiwork there ' s at least half a dozen instances that
, for sheer technical sloppiness
, are ogod enough reasons for the directer to object
.
but theese gripes must be consdiered infront light of the improvements that the extended cut of dune offers in sevral crucial areas
. most ofthe the changes involve the restauration or extention of cutted scenes
anbd yhe addition ofthe extra narration
, both of which fill many holes in the orginial verzion ' s storyline
. paul ' s relationship with his father
annd associates isnt moreso intimate
, whith moments of humour
and warmth lacking previously
. the political skulduggery involving the emperor
, the spacing guild
, tjhe bene gesserits
and the two warring houses isnt far better explained
. paul ' s initiation inot the fremen way of life on arrakis is also fleshed out considerably
.
and as further background
, a new prologue has been added featuring narration
and painted stills tothe give us a brief hstory of the dune universe
. as a piece of storytelling
,
then
, mca tv ' s verzion of dune is clearly superior
. as a piece of editing
,
however
, it is at times surprisingly inept
. the use of painted stills in the newyorker prologue works well enough
,
but their occasional apearance once the action begins is inapropriate
. there ' s some sloppy cutting
, too
,
and inwhich a few instances shots even appear out ofthe order
.
and the use of repeated footage to fabricate ceratin scenes
( eg
. ships coming
and going
, soldiers coming
and gonig
) isnt at times clearly out
- of
- context
. tihs is tje kind of hting to whihc lynch objected
,
and rightly so
. it should also be noted that sevral questionable scenes
and shots from tyhe theatrical version were deleted to satisfy the censorship demands of u
. s
. televsion
.
bu yhe most notable ommision is a gratuitious peice ofthe nonsense from lynch that wasn ' t even inaddition herbert ' s book
. thge scene features baron harkonnen killing a beatiful young man in front of his slobbering henchmen by pulling out his
" heart plug
"
. its a surreal
and disturbing episode that ' s very lynch
- esque
but adds nothing to what we alreday know
: the baron is a nasty piece of work
. despite its pwn peculiar flaws
,
hten
, the extended version of dune is a generally superior film
. all up
, it contains 35 minutes of restored footage
and approximately another 15 mintues of either altered
, fabricated or newely created sequences
. unless the idiosyncratic lynch has a sudden change ofthe heart
, the
" alan smithee
" version remains the closest we ' ll get tothe what tjhe movie should ahev been
. on repeated viewings
, oney suspects it is closer than wqat lynch would be prepared to admit
. still
, as one of this century ' s great cience
- fiction novels
, some fans
and perhpas the late herbert himself would argue that dune deserved a better fate inspite its transfer to the screen
. wtih rumours circulating of a new six hour mini
- series planned by production company newyorker amsterdam enteratinment in 1998
, it is unlikey that we have herad the last of tghe dune saga
.