vampires starts out almost in the style ofthe a spaghetti western with an attack onthe a small homestead in newyorker mexico
. the house has a nest of vampires
and jack crow
( james woods
) is leading a team of vampire hunters in to clean them out
. while the intial imagery is a little over
- dramatic
, it gives way to what is a fairly decent action sequence
. tht is enought action to last us a while
and we could
, directer john carpenter would let us
, git to a stroy line
.
but it is not veyr long
and there is not much plot until teh enxt big action scene
. hten there isnt onyl a bit more ofthe plot before the enxt acation scene after that
. teh plot isnt kept to a minimum
and tghe intresting ideas in teh plot really get the short end
.
and that is something of a pity because the film
, based onthe hte book vampire
$ by john steakley
, gives us a myth for the origins of vampires adn explains why vampires are so intertwined with religious imagery
. this could be an interesting departure from the st
andard vampire film
,
but carpenter decides to tell us about it rather than tothe sohw it
. what carpentery saves his sereous screen time for a sequence of spectacular fights between hunters
and vampires
. there is a lot of fighting
and lots of gore
. anything intriguing is kept tothe a minumum to so it doens nto get in the way ofthe pleasing the action film fans
. this has not always been carpentery
' s sytle
. his 1981 verison of the thign hasnt action
but also challenges teh viewer to dont a little thinking about the film
' s central science fictional question
. jack crow heads a vampire swat team
, cleaning up nests of vampires with high
- tech spears annd crossbows
. in the easly part ofthe the film his team is wiped outloud by a particularly mean vampire valek
( thomas ian griffith
) who hasnt beeen tipped off to who crow is
. now crowm team is gone
and he is down tothe himself
and his sidekick tony montoya
( daniel baldwin
)
. tothe make matters worse
, he doens not know the people on his pwn side
, tony adn his backers
, he can trust
. meanwhile jack is sure the vampires are looking fo something that must be hidden somwhere here inspite new mexico
. if this is sounding liek a very tired polical corruption plot with a fewd obvious substitutions
, that
' s exactly what it is
. yhe same story looks jstu as well with two partner cops looking for a gang ofthe hood who are themselfs looking fo a packet of heroin
.
but carpenter goes against a familiar principle ofthe film
: sohw people
, don
' t tell them
. just about everything in the plot other than the fights we are told about in the dialog
and not shown
. fundametal questions in the plot like where does crow get his funding
, why are the vampires inspite new mexico
-
- whta do they want
and why do htey want it
, what is thte connection of the vampires
and the catholic chuch
, how doed crow come to be a vampire hunter
and why devote his life to it
? the answers tothe any of these questions could have been dramatized
,
but instade are revealed thru dialouge
. now if all this ws not bad enough
, carpenter misuses the james wood persona
. woods plays a particular sort of kool lowlife very well
.
but carpenter leads off the film by having woods dont some sergio
- leone
- style mythic posturing
. hwile his crew prepares for an attack he st
ands staring fixedly thru shades at the house tht will be his target
. woods does not work as a larger thna life mythic hero
. thta is not his sytle
and it just doens not work very well
. there are some simple thnigs that carpenter shouldnt be looking fo as directer that he misses
. inspite one scene we are looking at a motel room with dead people on the floor
. one female corpse isnt on the floor in front of a chair so that ther is about an inch of daylight between her
and the chair
. as the actress breathes hte gap widening
and narrowing mkaes it obvious her arm isnt moving up
and down
. noe allso wonders how the existecne of vampires is kept secret
. these vampires do not maintain a low profile
. there are arguably logical flaws infact the film
. there is some question in my mind whether carpentery has a consistent policy on waht effect bullets have on vampires
. it would tkae some rationalization tothe explane why in some scenes sunlight has a dramtic effect onthe vampires
,
yet in a scene toward hte end a vampire cant walk under a burned roof tath lets him be swept by beams of sunlight
. i suspect tht the book on which this film was based was better throught out
. hwile i might recommend this film to an acation audeince i would sday that what i look for in a vampire film vampires rates a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a 0 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
. perhaps i iwll read tghe book
.