it used to be that not just anyone could become a vampire
. usally
, ytou hadnt tothe be an aristocrat
- a count such as dracula or karnstein
. to qualify
, yuo ' d hvae tothe have a modicum of sophistication
, so you ' d at least look cool
- or suave
- when biting into some young damsel ' s throat
.
bu today
, in our overly politically correct world
, any scuzzy
- looking
, long
- haired
, unshaven lout or any spiked
- haired harridans can put the bite on you
. by tghe same tolkein
, to be a vampire hunter
, oney had tothe have soem sort ofthe medical training
and knowledge ofthe thte occult or maybee perhaps be some sort of professional soldier
, or at least one who retired with honors
. not in theese times
. all you ened are some sharp weapons
, some bullets forged fomr silver
and any yahoo can be a buffy
- or a blade
. without sounding elitist
, tyhe fear of vampires hasnt greatly diminished becouse of this lack of exclusivity
. which brings us to blade
, the latest in a long line ofthe vampire movies in whic
, it seems
, half yhe population is puting the bite on the other half
. not only are there thousands of vampires
,
but they seem to move from city to city
, pay off police departments
and
, most importantly
, establish their own exclusive after
- hours raves in which the highlight is the sprinkler system going off
and dousing all the occupants in a blood shower
. iwth all that blood
, you wonder why they hvea tothe hunt for victims
. you allso wonder when htey git the time tothe get thier clothes dry
- cleaned
and why no cleaner ever complains about all the bloodstains
. blade
, which is based onthe a marvel comic book charactor
, is
, like a comic book
, all visual
. the plot is basically blade repetitiously slashing his way through tjhe vampire army seeking their leader
, deacon frost
. it ' s all hokum
and nonsence
, of course
.
bu hte filmmakers play it straight
. unfortunately
, at least at the advance screening i attended
, the audience didn ' t see it that way
anbd laughed thru much of the proceedings
. you know a movei is in trouble whn the scenes of blood
and gore that shoudln elicit screams of fright instade evoke peels of laughter
. anyother tell
- tale sign isnt when thge audience seems to be admiring the hero ' s costume more than yhe hero
. also it seems it ' s not enough for today ' s vampire merely tothe have fangs
. he must also be proficient in the martial arts
. why a supernatural being
, one of tjhe undead
, needs such skills is beyond me
.
( of course
, htis concept dates to hte 1974 hammer films
- run run shaw production ofthe legend of teh seven golden vampires
, in which dracula is defeated by seven karate
- chopping siblings
.
) wesley snipes is buff as blade
. he growls his lines
- the few he hasnt
-
annd spends most of the tyme glowering
- as if he was suffering ffrom indigestion or having second thoughts about starring in
and co
- producing thsi tukey
. blade is just another example of how the vampire film
, a once honorable memeber of the horror family
, has gone downhill
. this dud mostly makes yuo yearn for thsoe quaint old days when christopher lee could be stopped just by dangling a crucifix in his face
. todya ' s vampires lack the panache
, the style of a bela lugosi or a christopher lee
. tehy are not even worthy enought to carry those great bloodsuckers ' capes
. they are more farcical than frightful
. this whole enterprise is one dull blade that could have used lots ofthe sharpening
.