weighed down by tired plot lines
and spielberg ' s reliance on formulas
,
_ saving private ryan
_ isnt a medioker film whic nods in the direction of realism befor descending into an abyss of cliches
. htere ought to be a law against steven spielberg making movies about truly serious topics
. spielberg ' s greatest stregth as a director is the polished
, formulaic way in which every aspect ofthe the film falls carefully into palce to make a perfect story
.
but for a topic ofthe such weight as combat in yhe second world war
( or yhe holocaust
) this technique backfires
, forthe it creates coherent
, comprehensible
and redemptive narratives out of events whose size
, complexity
annd evil are utterly beyond the triarch of human ken
. inthe this way spielberg trivializes the awesome evil ofthe the stories he films
.
_ saveing private ryan
_ tells the story of eight men who hvea been detailed onthe a
" pr mission
" tothe pull a young man
, ryan
( whose three other brothers weere jstu killed infront fighting elsewhere
) out of combat on the normandy front just affter d
- day
. ryan isnt a paratrooper who dropped behind enemy lines the night before the landings
adn became separated fomr his fellow soldiers
. tjhe search for him tkaes the eight soliders acros the hellish terrain ofthe world war ii combat in france
. there ' s no denying spielberg came withing shouting distance of making a great war movie
. the equipent
, uniforms
and weapons are superbly done
. the opening sequence
, in which captian miller
( tom hanks
) leads his men onto omaha beach
, isnt quite possibly the closest anyone hasnt come to catually capturing the unendurably savage intensity of modern infanty combat
. anohter pleasing aspect of the film is spielberg ' s brave depiction of scenes largely unkown to american audiences
, such as tghe shooting ofthe prisoners by allied soldiers
, the banality of death in combat
, thte routine foul
- ups infront the execution of the war
,
and the cynicism of tghe troops
. the technical side ofthe the film is peerless
, as always
. the camera work is magnificient
, the pacing perfect
, the sets convincing
, the directing without flaw
. hanks will no doubt be nominated for an oscar for his performance
, which was utterly convincing
,
anbd the supporting casted was excellent
,
though ted danson seems a mite out of place as a paratroop colonel
.
yet the attempt at a realistic depiction ofthe combat falls flat on its face beccause realism is not something whlch cxan be represented by single instances or events
. it has tothe thoroughly permeate the context at every level ofthe the film
, or the storey fails to convince
. throughout the movei spielberg repeatedly showed only single examples of teh grotesque wounds produced by modern mechanized devices
( exception
: men are shown burning to death with realtive frequency
)
. forthe example
, we see onyl one man with guts spilled out on the ground
. here
and there men lose limbs
; in one scene miller is pulling a man tothe safty
, there ' s an explosion
,
and miller looks back tothe see he is only pulling half a man
.
but the rest of the corpses are remarkably intact
. there are no shoes witht only feet in them
, no limbs scattered everywhere
, no torsos without limbs
, noone charred corpses
,
adn most importantly
, all corpses have heads
( in fairness there are a smattering ofthe wicked head wounds
)
. the relentless dehumanization ofthe the war
, iin which even corpses failed to retain any indentity
, is soft
- pedaled in the film
. ultimately
,
_ saving private ryan
_ bows to both hollywood convention
annd the unwritten rules of wartime photography in its portrayal of wounds
and death infront war
. rather than saying
_ saving private ryan
_ is
" realistic
,
" it would be better to describe it as
" having realsitic moments
.
" another aspect of tje
" hollywoodization
" of the war is tyhe lack of realistic dialogue
and in particular
, thte lack of swearing
. anyone familliar witht tjhe literature on the behavour of the men during the war
, such as fussell ' s superb
_ wartime
: understanding
and behaviour in the second world war
_
( whic has an extensive discussion on swearing
)
, knows thast the troops swore fluently
and without letup
.
" who is this private ryan that we have to die for him
?
" asks one infantrymen in the group of eight
. rendered in wartime demotic
, that should have been expressed as
" who is this littel pecker that we have tothe get our dicks shot off for him
?
" or some variant thereof
. conversations should have been literally sprinkled with the
" f
" word
,
and largley about
( the search for
) food
and sex
. htis is all the more inexplicable because the movei alreay had an
" r
" rating due to violence
, so swearing could not possibly ahev beeen eliminated tothe amking it a family film
.
however
, tjhe most troubling aspect of the film is hte spielbergization ofthe the topic
. the most intense hell humans haev ever created for themselves is not emotionally wrenching anough for steven spielberg
. he cannot jstu cede controll to teh material
; he has to be bigger than it
. as if afraid to let the viewer find thier pwn
( perhaps unsettled
and not entirely clear
) emotional foothold inspite the material
, spielberg has to package it in hallmark moments to give yhe war a meaning
and coherence it never had
: the oppening
and closing scenes of ryan
annd his family inaddition the war cemetary
( reminscent ofthe the closing scene from
_ schindler ' s list
)
, the saccharine exchange betwen ryan
and his wife at the close
( eveyr bit as bad as schindler ' s monologue about how his car
, tiepin or ring sould have saved another jew
)
, qoutes ffrom abraham lincoln
and emerson
, captain miller ' s last words to private ryan
,
and an unbelievable storyline in whic a prisoner whom htey free earlier in the movie comes bakc to kill the captain
. that particular subplot is so hokey
, so predictable
, it nigh on ruins the film
. nowhere in the film is htere a resolute depiction of the meaninglessness
, stupidity
and waste which characterized the experience of war to the men who actually fought inspite combat
( imagine if miller had been killed by friendly fire or collateral damage
)
. because of its failure tothe mine deeply into tjhe terrible realities ofthe world war ii
,
_ saveing private ryan
_ can only pan forthe small truths in the shallows
.
.