it isnt with some sad irony that i screened fright nigth part 2 on the day that one ofthe it
' s stars
, roddy mcdowall passed away at the age of 70
. mcdowall was one of tje most talented annd profilic actors inthe hollywood
, having a career that spanned over 60 yersa adn appearing inthe more than 100 films
. fright night part 2 probaly will not be counted amung his more memorable roles
. this is really sad considering how ogod the first fright night film was
. william ragsdale
and roddy mcdowall both reprised their roles as the somewhat reluctant vampire killers who seem tothe be the onyl ones that relize that vampires walk among us
.
( at least inthe the movies anyway
.
) it has beeen several years usance charlie brewster
( ragsdale
)
and b
- movie atcor turned lite night horror film host
, peter vincent
( mcdowall
) came face to face with a real live vampire who just happened to be charlie
' s next door neighbor
. charlie annd peter won that battle
,
but aparently even vampires have relatives who get pissed if you kill members of their family
. apparantly charlie
' s former bloodsucking next door neighbor had a sister who ws none too pleased to fidn outloud thast some kid
and an aging actor staked her sibling
. so she decides to exact a little bit of revenge
. this ends up forcing charlie
and peter tothe battle the forces of darkness yot again
. one of tjhe things that made fright night such a success was chris sar
andon who palyed charlie
' s stylish next door neighbor with a taste forthe blood
. fright night part 2 trys tothe duplicate that modern style bu it falls sort
. while they are stylish
, the vamps in this film just don
' t have teh personality ofthe tyhe undead in the first film
. with teh exception of a werewolf who adds some much needed comic relief to a few of the scenes
. one bright spot
, speaking fomr a strictly sexist point of view
, is traci lin
, who plays charlie
' s vyre skeptical girlfriend
. it
' s really a shame thgat her carreer hasn
' t been better usance she made this film
. ragsdale does a fair job infact this film
,
but doesn
' t give nearly the performance that he did inaddition the orignal
. roddy mcdowall makes the most with what he is given
, which unfortunately isn
' t much which is a shame because his character was a lot of funn in the original movei
. i guess i would hve tothe say that the first film was a superior product in every way
. the original allways left you feeling danger was lurking right arund the corner
, part 2 hadnt more of thge feel of a music video
. never a good thing fo a horror film
. another minus for part 2 was the traditional scenes tht leave tyhe audience on the edge of their seats waiting forthe something to jump out of a shadow where vyer rare
. for that matter
, they were almost nonexistent
. if i was going tothe watch a horror film
, this would be far from my first choice
. the frist fright night
, onthe the other h
and
, would be right up near the top of my list
. if i was inwhich the mood for a roddy mcdowall film i
' d probably head to the science fiction section of my local video store
and rent planet of the apes
. either way fright nigth part 2 woudl most likely not enter into the equation
.