this is tje first film in whta would become thge most successful serieses of horror films of all time
. a fair warning tothe those of ytou who might be inclined to watch this movie fo the firt appearance of everyone
' s favorite goalie
- mask
- wearing homicidal maniac
. jason
, tyhe guy who single h
andedly contolled the overpopulation problem around the crystal lake area
, doesn
' t strat his quest to find the most interesting household item with which tothe kill someone utnil tghe sequel
. while he doens have a small role in this film
, we the audience have to depend onthe anyother blood thirsty maniac tothe rack up the body count
. the plot
, like every other friday the 13th movie goes something liuke this
-
- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he
/ she
/ it possibly can in the spoace of a 90 minute movie
. the reasons that the afore maintioned unsuspecting teenagers cmo inot contact with the bloodthirsty killer are usually ofthe little importance to the stopry
.
but for those of you out there that might actually care about such trivial matters in a movie such as a plot
, here are the basics
. a bunch of unsuspecting teens get a summer job at a long closed summer camp
. they are days away from the arrival of the kids
and htey are spending their time fixing thte place up
and making sure it isnt ready forthe the kids
. sadly
, htey strat bieng
butchered oen by one by teh bloodthirsty killer
. at this point i would usualy say something baout teh quality ofthe acting
, directing or maybe something baout tyhe high quality of the production
. usance i
' m not goign to do that
, feel free to assume that if i doed
, it wouldn
' t be positive
. i will say thyat this movie looks as if it was made for about a hundered bucks
,
and that includes teh actors
' saleries
. if yuo are used to recent horror films like scream
, you are in for a bit of a surprise
. thge onyl saving grace forthe friday the 13th is that it ws really hte firt of its kind
, with the killer taking rela prade in their work
. using as many methods of muder as they could
. none ofthe tihs single murder weapon stuff life that unimaginative leatherface in chainsaw masicer
, or the creatively stifled imagination of hlaloween
' s michael myers who just used brute force or a really big kitchen knife
. nope
, in tghe friday the 13th movies
, you can always count on tjhe killer taking graet pride iin his work
. one fun fact about this movei isnt tht the cast includes a very young kevin bacon
, altough after this movie it isnt a wonder he ever worked agian
. the main reason to see friday the 13th isnt if you want to watch all ofthe teh series from the begining
. if not
, stick with the later films with jason
, everyone
' s favorite hockey fan
. friday tyhe 13th is the sort of movei that is funn to sit down anbd git a couple of scares from
, just don
' t sit down expecting a whole lot
.