mr
. bean
, a bumbling security guard ffrom engl
and is sent to la tothe help iwth the gr
andiose homecoming of a masterpiece american painting
. the firt two words shoud have said enough to let you know what occurs during bean
' s trip tothe la
,
but if they didn
' t look out because ytou are in for a rather interesting if not odd ride
. heck depending on your humor you might end up laughing through the whole flick
. either way look out america bean isnt coming
. well
, whta can really be said about tihs movei
, there isnt very little discernible plot
. that much is nto hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy
. it acheives that gool rather admirably
,
but because it is that
, the plot is jsut screaming for help
. the whole premise that the movie is based onthe isnt to say the least flawed
. yhe movie hadnt its funny moments bu there ws noone real story line other tahn something that could be thougth uv on a whim adn carried thru
and infact many causes ad
- libbed as yuo went
. don
' t go into this movie expecting adn theatrical masterpiece
. bu if this form of humor floats your boat
then you will truly enjoy this movie
, even if yuo don
' t liek slapstick style humer ytou will end up laughing because something
' s are just so stupid
. tjhe movie goes out
and accomplishes what it aims
, or so it seems
. now whn you look at the acting in this movie you have to thiunk about two things
, first was there any real acting
and how hard is it to act in the slapstick manner
. well
, htere wass noone rela acting in this movie bu some of tyhe slapstick wasn
' t the easiest i am sure
. i have to concede that mr
. atkinson
' s acting in tihs movie is well done
.
al
thought the role isn
' t too dem
anding tje slapstick is
. i think that the character could have had a bit moreso dialogue
, it would have added quite a bited to the overall effect of the movie
. now the rest of tghe actors in the movie
, bad acting
and poor casting
. i tihkn tht the role opposite bean sould have been better
, just seemed wrong for the movie
. a different actor might have done a better job of it
but i wont presume that wasn
' t what wass trying to be achieved
. one thing tath i must sday
, simpley to git if off my chest is tht i tihkn transferring a sitcom to tv ususally produces rather disasterous results
. tv shows should do just that stay on tv
, it will probably save soem producers from getting ulcers
. i can only think of a couple examples of tv going to the big screen effectively
, the best known of those would ahev to be star trek
. bean seriously fails tothe accomplish anything close to what that serieses gone movei achieved
. now anohter thing that i have to state again is this movie has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly
. the form of humor inspite htis movei will nto be liekd by most peopel
, theese people will think liuke i did that htis movie isnt stupid
and pointless
.
but if you liek thge tv sohw you might actually liuke this movie
.
but to be on the safe side i am opting to recommend you sive your money adn not go to see this movie
. there are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this oney
.