a silly film that tries tothe be a black comedy
but plays mroe like lightweight comedy
, with its main asset bieng a beautiful film loction along spain
' s mountainous coastline
. howard pigeon
( jeff goldblum
) is a 40
- year
- old mineral water salesman who is married for 13 years tothe a wief constantly nagging him
, elizabeth
( mimi rogers
)
. after a suprize birthday party for him
, where his wife bawls him outloud for coming late to his surprise party
, he confides to his best friend that he can
' t st
and it anymore
,
and thn tells him his plan tothe kill her while vacationing inspite the smae barcelona hotel where they spent their honeymoon
. jeff is going through a savere mid
- life crises
, worried that he looks older than his age
. he incessantly talks tothe himself
, mostly agonizing over his bitter mariage anbd chastising himself why he went out with elizabeth for a second time
, adn
then why he marryied her just because she laughed at his jokes
and was attractive
. he stutters adn acts like a man who has lost his confidence
. things chanage onthe theri vacation
, as elizabeth mkaes an effort to be nice while jeff now becomes tghe grouch
. he nervously rehearses his muder plan inaddition tjhe hotel room
. by accident the gun goes off annd inot the pillow where he imagined elizabeth would be sitting
. wehn other hotel guests
and stff come tothe check about the gunshot
, he nervously explains thta it was the tv
. realizing how unworkable his plan isnt
, he places the gun in the shattered pillow
and throws it inot the ocean while he waits fo elizabeth
.
but elizabeth found his behavior odd during the entire trip
,
and wehn after a great deal of effort to git a reservation at the hotel
' s 5 star restaurant he insists onthe eating in the room
, she decides she had enough ofthe him anbd checks out without telling him
. as a result
, he goes to the police tothe report her missing
. while with the police
, a telegram comes from his wife saying she left him annd is going away beacuse she wants to be alone
. his boss
and all those he works with are sympathetic to him
, anbd he gets a job promotion
.
but soon the pillow with the gun is fished out of the water
, giving the police cause to arrest him
and search his hmeo
. there they fidn letters he hasnt written incriminating him tothe the muder
. the police also find out from hte hotel stff about the gunshot heard in his room
. in jail
, thnigs look bad for him
. no one believes him
, includng his friends adn lawyer
. his boss fires him anbd the papers have a field day with the headline storey
: pigeon
: a jailbird
. out on bail
, he realizes that his onyl hope is to track down his wief
. thru a call placed on his credit card
, he tracks her down to a mountain resort
. once there he lerans thta she took a hike up the steep mountain
and he gets a priest tothe be his mountain giude after telling him the true story
. tyhe film is watchable just for the antics of the jeff goldblum comic performance
. he is someone coming aart by the seams
, hwile mimi rogers is his perfect foil
. it was mostly pantomine humer
, with teh comedy charged in the changing facial expressions of the cahracters
and the absurdity of the situation
. a very minor farce tath might appeal to the sitcom crowd
. thge film just didn
' t take its situation seriously
and the story had many gaps in it
, so it had no chance for black humor to develop
. it instead palyed its set
- up of yhe henpecked husb
and acting out his fantasy strictly for enteratinment value tothe see how many chuckles it could draw
.