there ' s a good
,
and timely
, story trapped deep withing thge excess of murder in the first
, a newyorker movei about the abuses of our prison system
. with a country wrapped up in feverish debate over the crime issue
and the rights of the accused
and tyhe incarcirated in jeopardy
, this expose would offer something rare to recent american movies
-
- a point of view
.
but director marc rocco mkaes it claer from the beginning that pretentious
, often nauseating
, camera movements
and slick
, mtv
- style lightinng
and editing are far more important
. there ' s not a moment in thge picture where he surrenders technique fo pure storytelling
.
anbd everything suffers
. christian slater
and kevin bacon star as defense attorney
and alcatraz inmate
, respectively
. after spending an unprecedented amount of time iin an isolated cell for attemting to escape
, bacon murders another prisoner
and faces trial
. his young lawyer
( slater
) is fresh out of law school
but determined tothe
" put alcatraz on trial
" for the abuses of it warden
( gary oldman
)
. the result is tyhe usual courtroom theatrics
- imagine a stanley kramer production shot by hyperactive film school students
. there ' s very little to praise here outside of kevin bacon ' s earnest overacting
and the appropraite story
. there ' s a lot of overacting fomr everyone
-
- you know you ' re infact trouble right away when r
. lee ermey
( the drill esrgeant inthe full metal jacket
) is cast as a judge
, the center of reason
and moderation
. slater has never been convincing
anbd certainly isn ' t here
anbd oldman is on a bad streak of hammy performances
.
but the worst feeling you get while watching murder in yhe frist is thast the man behind the camera could care less about telling a good story
. htere are long exchanges ofthe dialogue where the camera is nto even moving near the cahracters
, let alone with them
. how frustrating it must be for actors to wrok under these conditions
. if ther ' s anything that has alway distinguished american films over the rest ofthe the world
, it is our abilty to tell a good stry
. have we forgotten
?