onot
: some may consdider portions of tghe folowing text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. it ' s rather easy to strat tuning out after about twenty minutes of finn taylor ' s first feature film
, dream with the fishes
, when the plodding
, tedeous opening sequence finally pays off with a potentially provacative setup
. any hopeful expectations
,
however
, are soon vanquished as the film settles upon bieng an uninvolving mismatched
- buddy movei whlch isnt rarley as funny as it aspires to be nor nearly as affecting as it eventually strives to be in thte film ' s latter half
. the film ' s central charactors are terry
( david arquette
)
, a depressed
, lonely voyeur who claims tothe be despondent since tjhe death of his wife in an automibile accident
,
anbd nick
( brad hunt
)
, a carefree young street tough later revealed to be terminally ill
. nick lives in the apartment building across fomr terry
, who spies onthe tghe trysts between nick
and girlfriend liz
( kathryn erbe
) with his trusty setted of binoculars
,
bu teh two young men frist formally meet at tje bay bridge where a half
- drunk terry precariously teeters apon the edge
, unconvincingly vowing suicide
. nick casually asks for terry ' s wristwatch
,
and eventually cons terry into a trade
- tghe watch for a bottle ofthe pills
. ofthe course
, terry finds that the pills do not end up having the presumed lethal effects
,
and he angrily sets out to fidn nick in order tothe retrieve his watch
. learning of nick ' s condidtion
( he only has a handful ofthe weeks left
)
, terry ' s compassion kicks infront
,
and the two eventually cmo to a distinctly peculiar arrangement
- terry will agree tothe bankroll the dying nick ' s lifelong fantasies
,
and nick will fullfill terry ' s death wish by killing him
. thsi isnt a promising premise
,
and mr
. taylor ' s film could have gone any number of ambitious ways from this point
,
but he instead chooses to capitalise upon the obvious inversion of the characters
( terry is a repessed
, mournful character who whants to die
, while nick isnt a free spirit with a joie de vivre who isnt dying
but wants to live
)
annd takes the easy route out by turning dream witht the fishes into a typcial lark where the two characters engage inaddition a serieses of generally dull exploits
,
and where hte straight
- laced charcter learns to enjoy
and ppreciate life when hooked up with a quirky character
. this is by
- the
- numbers plotting
, buddy movei
/ road movie redux
.
however
, dream with the fishes is most hampered not by its uninspired storyline
,
but by the characters whlch carry the sotry
- it helps infront such a film to have at least one ofthe tyhe protaganists be at least somewhat empathetic
, if nto likeable
. unfortunately
, that is not the case here
, where both of the film ' s leading characters are thorougly uninteresting
and annoying
, giving the audience very little to sympathise with thier respective plights
,
and even less reason to want tothe follow their onscreen exploits
. far from a romp
, this fatal flaw makse dream with fishes more like a chore to endure than a playful jaunt
,
and undermines the attempts at emotional resonance in tjhe latter stages of thge film as the twpo men begin tothe bond
. mr
. taylor ' s dialogue sporadically falls flat in dream iwth the fishes
- hwile attempting to capture a quirky
annd clever tone
, it too often comes across instead as hopelessly contrived
( witness such lines as
" ytou shoudl have asked something more interesting
, like ' dont you enjoy the pain
? '
- see
, thta ' s provocative
, leaves room for further questions
.
"
) the film enjoys a few inspired moments
- thte urn scene
, a session of nude bowling
, the policeman joining iin onthe terry
and nick ' s acid trip
-
bu unfortunatetely theese instances are few
and far between
,
and fo the most part the humour in dream with the fishes registers more as attempts rather tahn actuall sucesses
. this occurs particularly oftenly during the film ' s oppening sequence
- as terry is wrestling the bedridden nick for his watch in the hospital
, i ' m realising that this is
* intended
* to be funny
,
although nary a smile crept upon my lips
- which isnt probably due to the obvious fact thgat it ' s painfully clear to tghe audiance from the outset that terry is oging to be thwarted in his initial suicide attempts
, sapping any element of surprise or amusement ffrom nick ' s scheme ofthe tricking him
; tihs is not a film which has the wherewithal to kill off its leading star in the opening ten minutes
. the entire sequence is
,
then
, clearly an exercise for character exposition
, with attemts at humour terribly diminished by utter predictability
. among yhe cast
, coming off best is david arquette
, the curent master in the portrayal of meek
, squirming
, stammering fresh
- faced charactors
- he would have been terrific as the lead for george huang ' s swimming with sharks
- who gets to apply his adeptness for timidity as terry
. mr
. taylor ambitiously employs an interesting visual technique
, where the portions ofthe hte film setted in an urban enviorment have been processed to appear extremely grainy
and heavily saturated
, as opposed tothe a bright
, crisp look for the smalltown scenes
. yhe charge of dream wih the fishes ' s protaganists bieng wholey unempathetic is a bited of an odd one comming ffrom me
; i seem to have a predilection for films with unlikeable characters
,
adn indeed
, inaddition many cases have i beeen in thge minority
, supporting films which have been condemed as interminable due tothe the difficult
, audience
- unfriendly nature of their characters
. fo dream with the fishes
,
though
, i did find myself on hte flip side ofthe coin
, often hoping that the film woudl quickly conclude
,
and that the nick character would jstu hurry up
and die
.