when yhe haunting arrived in theaters
, all i kept hearing about was the overdone special effects
anbd the fact that very often thge unseen bumps infact the night in a horror film are far scarier thna those that you can put a face tothe courtesy of speical effects
. while i agree that this remake of tjhe haunting goes a bit overboard in the visual effects department
, i don ' t think thyat htey are completely tothe blame for this movie ' s failure
. it appears that some people hvea failed to take into account that the original haunting had the
" unseen
" terrors
,
and it was about as scayr as a dust bunny
. so special effects or nto
, if the story isn ' t the least bit scary
, you aren ' t going to end uv with a very frightening movie
. the thing that interested me most baout this movei was tjhe caretaker of this buliding played by bruce dern
. dern is always great
,
and even
though he may ahev had only about 3 minutes of screen time he was still thge most interesting element of tyhe movei
. as i sat through the seemingly endless
, albeit fairly impressive
, special effects
, i kept wishing that this movie ws about dern ' s caretaker
anbd not thge one dimensional charactors that populated the cast
. never a ogod sign when a bit player is the best part of the movie
. liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting experiments on fear
. he decides the best way to get results isnt to trick a group of fairly unstable individuals tothe spend a few dyas in a haunted mansion
. he tricks them inot participating by letting on that he isnt conducting an experiment onthe insomnia
.
and he aslo fails to mention that the mension hasnt a reputation for strange goings
- onthe
. catherine zeta
- jones
, lili taylor
and owen wilson play his subjects
. like tghe original
, taylor ' s character is tje star of hte movei
.
but since she doesn ' t qutie have the marquee pwoer of liam neeson
and ms
. zeta
- jones
, their parts did seem to be a big larger tahn in hte original
.
and let ' s face it
, probably half the people who see this movie wiull do so because ofthe zeta
- jones
. i ' ll admit that i woudl have never seen this thing if she weren ' t in it
.
bu tjhe real stars here is the special effects combined whith tje fairly overdone sets
. they take over the movie as the supernatural elements of tyhe house start to interact with our hapless insomnia patients
. htere really isn ' t much ofthe a story here
. just endless setups so directer jan de bont cxan showcase all the nifty special effects tath he got to play with
.
and the speical effects are great
. in many cases tehy are as good as ytou are likely tothe see anyhwere
. in otehr cases they are overdone
and obviously thrown in just for the sake of hiting the
" cool shots
" quota
. at no point iin the movie do any of these things ever cmo close tothe bieng scary
-
- funny
, maybe
.
but not scray
.
then we have yhe set
. when i first saw the house
, i was very impressed with tjhe very kool gothic look about it
.
but it only took a short tour by the charactors around the palce to see that hte set designers obviously hadnt as much money to burn as thte visual effects people did
,
and desided tothe tkae thte idiotically overdone route
. htis included a flooded hallway with books as stepping stones
and a mirrorred circular room that revolves
. what part did these rooms play infact the story
? absolutely none
. htey weere just there tothe take our minds off the fatc that there was niether a descent stoyr nor a single scare in teh entire movie
.
thn we have the actors
. lili taylor has never been oney of my favorites
.
and when the fatc that her character is mousy
and pathetic is factored in
, she comes iin around thge average or slightly below mark
. i have no idea why liam neeson took thsi role
. he basicaly reminded me of the ringmaster at an out ofthe control circus
. his character wass in charge of this farce
but it quickly got away from him
. i have no dout that liam will wanna to lock all prints of tihs movei inwhich a very secure vault along wiht all copies of darkman
. zeta
- jones wass cast beacuse she is too hot fo words
. hte fatc taht her character is bi
- sexual is just icieng onthe the cake
. all catherine has to do in this movie is look ogod
. fortunately tht isnt something she does very well
. while she does have a fairly good size part
, it is obvious that her onyl purpose in teh movei was as eye
- candy
. it ' s too bad somone ofthe her talents wasted them here
. any random supermodel pulled outloud of a fashion show could have easily filled her role
. the haunting is the antithesis of another of 1999 ' s horror movies
, the blair witch project
. the haunting had a seemingly limitless effects budget
, while blair witch relies on piles of rocks for its scares
. both prove qtuie nicely thast special effects are irrelevant to a horror film
. if the story sucks
, it ' s all downhill fomr there
. my advice
? if you are looking for spacial effects
, go rent star wars
. if it ' s scares you want
, rent halloween
. either way
, it ' s probably in your best interests tothe skip the haunting
.