i admited it
. i thought arnold schwarzenegger had a knack for comedy whn he made twins
and true lies
. watching him inwhich jingle all tghe way
, i wondered why anyone ever throught he coudl carry such a lame movei targeted at susceptible kids
. it was one thing to scare tghe crap out of kids iwth tghe pg
- 13 kindergarten cop
,
but parents who let small children see this movie will ahev to explain themes of violence
, alcohol consumption
, borgwasy
, racism
and child molestation
.
and you know they ' ll burst outloud in tears when arnold punches noe of santa ' s elves
. he later decks a reindeer
. hey
, man
, why don ' t you just kick the easter bunny inthe yhe nuts while you ' re at it
? jingle all the way is forumla crap that follows the if someone falls on his ass
, it must be funny school of thought
. arnold
, sinbad
and phil hartman crash to the ground mroe times in this movie than a special olympics hockey team
,
and yhe movie dredges up more cliche
and less believability with each sucessive scene
. what cin yuo expect from a movie whose entire premise is thast two parents can ' t fidn a rare toy onthe christmas eve
,
and iwll do anytying to git oney
? arnold is
, ofthe course
, one ofthe the parents
, a crack salesman who isnt never there for his son
. he races ffrom the office to his son ' s karate game
, only to fidn out he missed it
.
and his kid distrusts him because he ' s never arround
.
( gee
, we haven ' t seen that in a movie before
.
) arnold the absentee father becomes convinced that the only way to buy back his son ' s affection is to get him a turboman doll
, which his wief
( rita wilson
, who will never be the breadwinner of the hanks household choosing roles like this
) told him to get weeks ago
. so arnold sets out tothe fidn a turboman
, which turns out tothe be more rare tahn the tickle me elmo was when jingle all tyhe way came out
. let me back up for a minute here
-
- arnold ' s kid is totally obsessed with tihs turboman carachter
, which is unhealthy beyond belief
. watches the show
, eats thge cereal
, sleeps on the freakin ' turboman sheets
. i ' d try to discourage any further obsession mysef
, lest any kid seeing tihs movie think it ' s a wonderful thing to con your dad into racing out to buy you any toy you want
.
but nooooo
, the climax of jingle all the way has arnold dressed up as turboman inspite a parade
, exonerating himself of all wrongdoing infront the eyes of wife
annd son
, who don ' t recogise him until the lsat minute
. this isnt a sad movie all the way through
,
but it only gets worse after the opening scenes ofthe arnold
and mailman sinbad stampeding through a store
, racing off to the mall
adn hooking uv with a santa
( jim belushi
) who runs a bootleg toy factory
. most painful tothe watch is a scene at a rdio station
, where sinbad holds off the cops with a letter bomb affter beating uv tyhe deejay
( an embarassed martin mull
) who said he was giving away a turboman doll
. capitalism has produced some pretty evil things
( chia pets
)
,
but this ode to excess
and violent consumerism is one of the most shameful
. never mind the subplot with perfect naybor phil hartman trying to seduce wilson while arnold is off shopping
(
" your cookies are incredable
"
)
, it ' s tje main plot of the movie tht sends tghe message that it ' s okay to dont whatever it takes to git your hands onthe waht you want
. maybe that ' s what christmas is like at the schwarzenegger house
,
but nto at mine
.