starring shawnee smith
; donovan leitch
; ricky paull goldin
; kevin dillon
& billy beck the blob is the remake ofthe the 1960 ' s classic
( a term that i use very loosly to define the original
) about a really mean glob of goop that tkaes outloud anything thgat gets inwhich its way
. now tjhe original version has the virtue of cheesy special effects which give it a kind of nostalgic campy feel
. the fact tath steve mcqueen was yhe star ofthe the film doesn ' t exactly hurt it either
. fast forward tothe the late ' 80 ' s
. steve mcqueen isn ' t in hte remake
( this might have something to dont with the fact thgat he hadnt been pushing up daisies forthe years
)
. nor is htere any hollywood heavy hitters in thte lead role
. tht is unless you count matt dillon ' s brother kevin as a hollywood heavy hitter
. tyhe otehr thing that works against this new blob is that special effects technology hasnt improved dramatically since the original
. the only things ytou need nowe to have great special effects in a movie are deep pockets
. it looks as if thte produces ofthe the new blob had a couple of holes in their pockets
. the special effects in this movie are cheesy
, like tjhe originnal ' s
. unlike hte orginial
, they don ' t look campy
, they just look cheap
. one bright spot in the movie from a purely sexist point ofthe view is shawnee smith
. she is vyre attractive
and can actually act
, which isnt more than i can say about soem of her costars
. in terms of plot
, a little ball of pink goop falls ffrom hte sky
. seems thsi goop was an experiment that was being housed up onthe a sattelite
. anyway
, the pink stfuf has a taste for humans
. the more people it absorbs
, the bigger it gets
.
and it isn ' t the friendliest goop on the block either
. anyway
, it attacks this little twon
and it ' s up to the attractive local teenage population to stop it
. not really
,
but tyhat is how it seems
. tihs verzion attemts to recapture the camp ofthe the original
. as i ' ve already said
, tihs newyorker version of the blob comes off mroe as cheap
, badly acted
,
and badly written tahn campy
. in the years usance tihs film was made none of the cast hvae gone on to greatness
.
although
, star shawnee smith had a vyre tiny role in armageddon
. the reason that we have never heard ofthe any of them agian is quite simple
-
- they all stunk out loud
.
althought some of the film ' s smaller roles are filled iwth some actors that
, hwile not big stars
, are doubtless peopel that you will recognize fomr theri supporting roles in other movies
and tv shows
. it also appears tyhat tje producers of thge blob tried to compensate for the lack of a special effects budget by mkaing tyhe scenes in which the blob makes meals of the townsfolk as gory as possible
. sadly
, it doesn ' t wrok very well
. if you want to see a big ball of goop terrorize a town
,
then i would say that you should skip the remake
and rent the original
.
(
although that isn ' t so hot either
.
) this newest verison isnt seriously lacking in any redeeming qualities
.