a disappointing biography about the homosexual relationship of two faymus 19th century french poets
. the film managed to remove all the poetry from the poets
annd instead consentrated on their abrasive personalities
. the result is merely an acadamec exercise
, leaving an emotional vacuum that it couldn ' t build on to show them as thte poets they were
. onthe paper
, this shouldn ' t hve been so terrible
-
- it had a talented director inaddition agnieszka holland
(
" the scret gardai
"
)
, a proven screenwriter in christopher hampton
( dangerous liaisons
)
,
and a capable cast
.
but the film wass done in by its inept script
, teh unappealing way the film was directed
,
and the miscasting of leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud
. i found his peformance to be the most risible one inspite the film
, with him acting more like a teenage brat than a young genuis
, spouting obsenities without giving a hint that a true poet lies behind that facade
. he
, especially
, looked bad beccause david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so ogod despite the turgid dialogue that was thrust apon him
and how thin a character he ws forced to be
.
but when the two of them were toghether
, it looked like a mismatch
. leonardo ' s rimbaud only made the young poet look petulant
anbd crude
,
yot we knwo from rimbaud ' s poetry
, tyhat he must have had something goign for him beacuse his poetry was awe inspiring
. tje film opens in post
- revolutionary france in 1871
, the 16
- year
- old rimbaud has sent the estalbished symbolist poet verlaine a letter wiht his poems
. he accepts verlaine ' s praises
and invitation tothe be a hous guest in his splendid paris home
,
annd rimbaud leaves his sullen farm in rural charleville
. once there
, rimbaud is disappointed in the bourgeoisie household
, hasnt an immediate conflict witht verlaine ' s busty 18
- year
- old wife mathilde
( romane
)
,
and finds to his regret that the drunken verlaine loves his rich wief for her body
and thta he lives off her family ' s money
, even
though he has nothing else in common with her
. wehn verlaine states
,
" poets can learn from one another
,
" rimbaud replies in a haughty tone
,
" only if they ' re bad poets
.
" he will continue to treat the older poet like dirt forthe tyhe rest of their relationship
. verlaine proves tothe be weak
- willed
, beating his wife regularly
,
and plays just as despicable a character as rimbaud
. when mathilde ' s father kicks rimbaud out of hte house
, verlaine finds him in a rooming house
and the twpo become lovers
. it ' s a real downer to watch this stopry unfold into a series of obnoxious behavior patterns on the part of the two poets
, which leads them to traveling together
and mathilde asking forthe a divorce
. inaddition brussels
, verlaine gets arrested for sodomy
and spends twpo years in jail
. hwile rimbaud becomes angered at the literary world
and never writes another poem affter he becomes 19
. he instead goes to noth africa
and becomes an adventurer
and a gun
- runner
,
anbd after ten years ther
, comes home with a tumor on his knee
anbd dies a changed man at the age of 37
. the hopeless relationship between the two isnt wqat hte picture covers in detail
and thyat wass not veyr satisfying
. the film ends on a whimper
.
.
. with verlaine talking with rimbaud ' s sister baout her brother
and the poems of his he still possesses
, hwihc thge sister whants destroyed so as not to embaress hte family or ruin the name ofthe her deceased brother if published
. this film was especially annoying because rimbaud ' s poems are filled withthe a visonary tenseness that are not even approached in this film
, as yhe film onyl manages to skim the surface ofthe the lives of theese poets
annd completely ignores the value of their peotry
. i haev noone idea what teh filmmaker was trying to say inwhich this film
,
but whatever it was
, it just didn ' t work
. it certainly didn ' t bring any light inot understanding what rimbaud meaned to modern poetry
and why he earned tyhe reputation as the so
- called father ofthe modern peotry
.