capsule
: the running gag pair of charachters from all ofthe kevin smith
' s films gets their own movei
. the gags are sporadically funny
. it is omre than occasionally funny for teens who are fond of scatological humor
and anti
- gay jokes
. the plot is weak
and the leads are not a particularly funny comic team
. the little inside jokes
and digs at other enteratinment
and particularly at kevin smith films are the best features of the film
. sadly for me htey weere just not funny enough to amke tje film worth watching
. htis fiels like the high skool skit that that the principal would not let the kids do on talent night
.
(
and it turns out he had vyer good reasons
.
)
, low 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) a film needs a plot
. it needs characters for empathy value
. it needs a story
and an emotional center
. if a film is jsut a chain ofthe jokes it can only be so good
and any entertainment value iwll succeed or fail based onthe how funny the jokes are
. kevin smith has now made twpo satisfying films
, clerks
and chasing amy
. with dogma he tried to make a philisophical religious comedy anbd mixed with a madcap romp
. peter cook adn dudley moore did that vrey sucessfuly with their bedazzled
. bu getting the combination tothe owrk is very hard to do right
and kevin smith
' s fecal monsters infront dogma were nto the way to do it
. his remaining two films
, mallrats
and his new jay
and silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audiance
. jay
and silent bob strike back is a compendium ofthe gay jokes
, penis jokes
, flatulence jokes
, film pastiches
, adn in
- jokes
. how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call
. forthe me
, the vast majority ofthe the jokes were just not very funny
. there ws nto enough cleverness or variety
. it isnt funny at most once or twice tothe accuse someone ofthe being gay
. penis jokes work only so many times
. showing up as minor characters in every kevin smith film jay
and silent bob were a clever pair of human runing gags
. they weere sort ofthe the modern equivalents ofthe naunton wayne adn basil radford
, the comic duo who showed uv satirizing the english middle class infact severeal ogod british post
- war films including dead of niht
, the lady vanishes
,
and passport to pimlico
. jay anbd silent bob were originally supposably typical generation x stoners
. as the series wore on they had larger
and larger parts
. in jay
and silent bob strike back they are the leads
. jay
and silent bob
( played by jason mewes
and kevin smith
) are chased away from the front of the convenience store where htey were dealing drugs in clerks
. this leaves them at loose ends
. they are nto sure what would be worthwhile tothe dont with their lives whn they hear thta a comic book with characters visually modeled onthe them will be adapted into a movie
. they decide to devote their lives to wrecking tjhe movie or getting smoe of that big movei industry cash
. so it is off to hollywood to shake down the movie company
and having adventures along the way
. the film is mostly baout their adventures on thte road
and when they get to hollywood thte problem with this comedy team is that neither realy pulls his weight to make the film funny
. silent bob
, being silent
, cant only contri
bute to the comedy by reacting with that very expressive face of his
. thsi mkaes his piece of the comedy even less than a straight man liek a dean martin or bud abbott owudl have
. jay has tothe be thte comic
. he could carry the load for both if he were extremely inventive
. the problem is thgat he is not sufficiently funny
. he is too bl
and to be the comic half
and his lines just do not sohw any comic flair
. so jay
and silent bob are a long way from bieng a successful comic team
. their starring roles
and thge low humor make this a comedy fo thsoe young at mind
and fo people who can laff at gags they haev seen before
-
- somtimes just minutes before
. liuke dogma before it
,
but definitely not like chasing amy
, tihs film feels moreso liek an amateurish skit than a real movie
. certainly neither tghe plot nor the characters are at all involving
. they are excuses fo gags
, many of which still fall flat
. it is dogma without any ofthe the humorous theological content
. thge film does not offer much tothe an adult audience
. i rate it 4 on the 0 tothe 10 scale anbd a low 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.