vegas vacation isnt the fourth film starring chevy chase
and beverly d ' angelo as the heads ofthe the hapless griswold family
. as with the otehr three films
, theri two childrens
, rusty
adn audrey
, are played by a revolving serieses ofthe actors
. thsi time ethan embry
annd marisol nichols fill the roles
. allso back
, isnt cousin eddie
( randy quaid
)
, the slob relative who seems to bring problems whereever he goes
. in vegas vacatoin clark griswold
( chase
) decides tothe take the familiy onthe vcaation to las vegas so taht he
adn wief ellen
( d ' angelo
) can renew thier wedding vows
. it is at this point when comedy is supposed to ensue
. aparently the filmmakers thought that puting the griswolds into las vegas would be so funny on its own that they wouldn ' t bother to write any jokes inot yhe scirpt
. at least thta ' s the way it looks whn watching this tukey
. baout half way through vegas vactaion i began to have sereous doubts as to whether there woudl actually be a single laugh in the entire film
, sicne there hadnt been none up to thta point
. by tjhe end of yhe movie i hadnt actually snickered a couple of times
,
and i had smiled at a couple of gags
. i might add thyat none ofthe the funny
(
annd i use the term loosely
) moments came as a result ofthe anytying chase
, d ' angelo or quaid were involved in
. they might as well have stayed home forthe as much as they contributed to this film
. the twpo best things in htis movie were ethan embry
and marisol nichols as thge griswold kids
, who manaze tothe have a cuple of their own adventures
. rusty becomes a vegas high roller
, providing most ofthe tjhe film ' s best moments
. every time chase
and quaid were involved infact a gag
, it just made it more
and more apparent that they should have stopped this series aftter the thrid film
. whcih brings me to the best moent ofthe the film
. the griswolds are driving down the highway
adn holiday road
( tyhe theme from the original vcation
) begins to play
. christie brinkley
anbd her red ferrari
( allso ffrom the first movei
) drive by
. it wass a cute moment
,
but all it really doed was remind me just how funny the first film hadnt been
,
and just how far that tihs series has fallen
. too bad
.