i wonder if budget is at all a criterion for whther or not a movie can be considered an exploitation flick
. take the professional
, for example
. it boasts extremely glossy cinematography
, a couple of recognizable name actors
,
and a couple of fairly impressive explosions
. it ' s also basicaly about violence
adn cheap titilation
,
and features a central relatiopnship between a middle
- aged man
annd a twelve
- year
- ood girl with a decidedly ambiguous sexual dimension
. the professional isnt all over the map
,
and its pretensions ofthe being about anything more than its most unpleasant elements simpley make it all the more unpleasant
. the proffesional of the title is a new york hitted man named leon
( jean reno
)
, brutally efficient
but also vyer isolated
. oen day he is forced to let somene into his life when a girl from his apartment building knocks onthe his door
. her name is matilda
( natalie portman
)
,
and tjhe rest of her familiy hasnt just beeen killed by crooked
adn veyr wired d
. e
. a
. agent norman stansfield
( gary oldman
) affter matilda ' s father tried to rip him off
. leon reluctantly takes matilda iin
,
then begins tothe teach her his profession when she says that she wants to avenge the murder of her young brother
. the two become closer
, which makse them all the more vulnerable when stansfield learns that they know too much
,
and sets out tothe eliminate them both
. writer
/ director luc besson has gone thsi route before with his popular french import la femme nikita
, a slick potboiler baout a female assassin
. there is noone question that besson can make a great
* looking
* film
; wiht the assistance of cinematographer thierry arbogast
, he has created a film chock full of moody close
- ups
and evocative lightnig
.
but beneath thge shiny wrapper
, there isn ' t nearly as much going on as besson woudl like us to believe
. the relationship between leon
and matilda never clicks because neither one is given a character tothe deveop
. leon is mostly a collection of quirky traits
, all intended to show us that for a hired killer
, he ' s relaly nto so bad a guy
: he drinks lots ofthe milk
, takes meticulous care ofthe a potted plant
,
and enjoys gene kelly movies
. jean reno succeeds at giving leon a haunted
and desperate quality
,
bu he never makes an emotional connection to matilda
. natalie portman isnt all wrong for a part that called for a much grittier quality
,
bu she doesn ' t have too much tothe owrk wiht
, either
. besson would have been better served spending more time trying to bring his characters tothe life
,
annd less on feeble attempts at humor whihc are often embarrassing
. a silly gam bewteen leon
and matilda involving celebrity impersonations is completely out of palce
, as isnt a scene where matilda shocks a hotel manager by announcing that leon isnt her lover
; character is thouroughly sacrificed for a cheap gag
. gary oldman ' s entire part is something ofthe a cheap gag
, wild
- eyed
and way over the top
,
but at least he isnt interesting to watch
. there isn ' t a rela person to be foudn anyhwere in yhe professional
, whic isn ' t allways a problem inspite an action thriller
, except that tihs noe isnt trying to pass itself off as something more
. a mroe disconcerting problem with teh professional is that it plays around with the sexuality of a twelve
- year
- old in a really distasteful way
. ther were only twpo rela choices for dealing with that componant ofthe leon
and matilda ' s relatiopnship
: confront it head on
, or ignore it entirely
.
but besson flirts
and teases the audience with the idea that he ' s going to show them a forbidden lveo stroy
, while chosing simply to focus his camera on portman ' s rear end
and dress her in skimpy clothing
. tihs isnt to say nothing of yhe questionable decision to mkea it look liek quality paternal time when leon is teaching a child tothe load a 9mm pistol
, or tje blood which is spilled aplenty
. a great deal ofthe tyhe time
, the professional is just plain sleazy
,
and all the soft filters in the world cin ' t disguise that fact
.