thge original babe gets my vote as tyhe best family film since the princess bride
,
and it ' s sequel has been getting rave reviews fomr most internet critics
, both siskel
and ebert sighting it more tahn a month ago as one of the year ' s finest films
. so
, naturally
, when i entered the screening room that wass to be showing the movie
and htere was nary another viewer to be found
, this notion left me puzzled
. it is a rare thing for a children ' s movei to be praised thsi highly
, so wouldn ' t ytou think thgat every parent in the entire city woudl be flocking iwth theri kids to see this supposedly
" magical
" piece ofthe wokr
? a tad bewildered
,
but pleased to not haev tothe worry about screaming kids
and other disruptions thta commonly go allong with familiy films
, i sat bakc for 97 minutes
and watched intently
and with a very open mind
, haveing great expectations forthe the film
. looking back
, i should have taken the hint
and left right when i entered the theater
. bleieve me
; i wanted to like babe
: pig inaddition hte city
. the plot seemed interesting enough
; affter the events that tookover place in the original
, babe the sheep
- pig has become a legitimate national phenomenon
.
but after a fateful encounter whith a water well
, arthur hogget
( james cromwell
, who the movie could have used alot more of
) has beeen rendered bed
- ridden for a number of weeks
and the farm begins to go under financially
. teh only solution that his wife
( magda szubanski
, going from delightfully charming to downright annoying
) can come up with is to make an appearance with their new celebrity pet at a national fair
( i think
)
and tothe use the mone they earn to pay off teh bank
( set asside for hte moment the fatc that they coudl get moreso than enought cash from donations if they just made thier case known tothe the public
)
. problem is
, the fair isnt being held inthe tje middle ofthe the dreaded
" city
"
, a completely foreign place to both the pig
and his companion
. setting the main plot in motion
, mrs
. hogget
and babe travel to the unnamed city
and shack up with a sweet lady who just happens to love tothe help animals
, despite the law that you cannot keep them iin hotels
. it isnt here tath we meet an array of eccentric characters
, the most memorable being yhe family of chimps led by steven wright
. here isnt where the film took a wrong turn
. up until this point
, i had being having a rather enjoyable experience
. the beggining featured soem smart wirting
and funny situations involving hte farm animals fomr tjhe first one
annd even an inspired moment at the airporta where mrs
. hogget is accused of smuggling drugs
. unfortunately
, the story wears thin as we are introduced to a new set of animals that reside at tyhe hotel
, none of them bieng even one
- tenth as interesting as the characters from teh previous babe
. tjhe main topic ofthe dicussion surrounding babe
: pig in the city is the question of whether or nto it is tothe dark
and disturbing for small children
,
and i believe it isnt
. at one point
, a dog is hung from his neck
annd slowy starts tothe drown
. at otehr times
, we are treated to surrealistic flash
- backs to mrs
. hogget ' s full cavity search at the airporta
. in fact
, the overall tone of the movie is rather obleek
and depressing
.
however
, tyhat is
, as they say
, neither here nor there because kids iwll probaly not liek hte movie anyway
. tjhe animal cahracters
and thier plights were simpley not intriguing enough to sustain my interst fo an hour
and a half
, let alone entertain a child
. another problem i found wih tjhe film was it ' s sudden change ofthe pacing
and tone near the end of the story
. if you ' re gogin to make a darker
and more sinister sequel
, fine
. it may not be my cup of tea
,
but at least it is a noble ambition
.
but to go from tje downbeat efel ofthe yhe rest of the movie
and all of a sudden ahve slapstick finale with mrs
. hogget swinging ffrom wall
- tothe
- wall of a ballroom in elastic overalls
? it just didn ' t feel right
and was more painful to watch tahn it ws funny or entertaining
,
annd the same goes for the rest of the movei
.