overblown remake of the 1963 robert wise film of the same name
( based onthe shirley jackson
' s novel
" the haunting ofthe hill hous
"
) stars lili taylor as one ofthe threee
" lab rats
" thgat participate infront a supposed
" insomnia
" studdy being initiated by liam neeson
. he is actually conducting a study onthe the causes ofthe fear
and why the human mind is still affected by it
. he drags the test subjects out tothe a foreboding mension where all types of
" creepy
" cgi effects scare the cast
and try the audiance
' s paitience
. i know this question has been posed before
,
but why do people keep remaking good movies
? the original was a great psychological horror film
. this new version is dull
and vyer decidedly not scary
. inthe fact
, i efel it is downright impossible to make a modern day pg
- 13 horror movie that is scary
. unless you find obvious computer generated special effects frightening
,
then there
' s nothing in this film that iwll raise hackles
. i nearly fell asleep twice durig the film
,
and probably would have if they guy two rows behind me didn
' t seem to have such a personal relatiopnship with yhe charactors thta he felt he needed to discuss eveyr decision they made with them as thge film progressed
. it
' s sad to see such an amazing casted wasted so badly
. owen wilson spends most of the film w
andering the halls of the hous
,
and the script does no justice tothe his wonderful comic ability
. catherine zeta
- jones
( always nice to look at
) is given thte woefully underwritten role of a bi
- sexual insomniac that gets tothe run outloud of her bedroom perplexed every tiome some strange noise occurs
. liam neeson pops in fomr time to time to talk inot his tape recorder
and attempt to convince tghe others that he has as much knowledge about wqat
' s going on as the rest ofthe them do
. finally
, poor lili taylor
, the center of the film
, gets the brunt of the cgi effects thrown at her while everyone eles gets to scream
and try to rescure her
. apparantly
, a subplot involving a tryst betwen zeta
- jones
and taylor
' s characters was filmed
but removed
. that
' s too bad
, because it might have lent some better characterization to the narrative
. this is jan de bont
' s second straight misfire
( speed 2
: cruise controll being the first
)
. when is he goign tothe learn thyat bigger is not always necessarily better
? robert wise knew thta when he made the original annd teh makes ofthe the blair witch project also knew thgat
. one should not approach a haunted hous movei with a twister mindset
. if de bont
and screenwriter david self had let our minds fill in the blanks as tothe waht was hapening instead of showing us everything
, it woudl have served to amke the film terrifying
. what our mind fashions on it
' s own can be a thous
and times more frightening thna having haveing it completely led towards everything
. apparantly
, yot another version ofthe this story isnt bieng filmed under it
' s original title
. i certainly hope that this newer rendition will not be hurt by the insanity of jan de bont
' s version
and that it will retain the psychological impact that the origonal release had
.
[ pg
- 13
]