fact tath charles bronson represents oney of the most important movie icons of the 1980s represents oney of the biggest
and alomst tragic ironies ofthe thta decade
. tradgedy lies inspite the fatc that the icon status ws earned less by quality of his work inthe movies
,
but the quantity
. most of those movies were produced by cannon group
, company led by israeli producers menahem golan
and yoram globus
. thsoe two men probably
thought that they sould be the enxt roger corman
, b
- movei mentors of future hollywood legends
. unforetunately
, tht didn
' t happened
,
and when cannon finally whent bankrupt at the end ofthe the decade
, behind it stood the huge pile of cinematic garbage
, that would require at least few centuries before it reaches the camp appeal
. sadly for bronson
, that garbage also contained numerous movies in wich thast capable character actor
and acation hero of thte 1970s tryed to raise their worth simpley by being the main lead
,
and lowering his own reputation in proces
. on the otehr h
and
, bronson could take comfort in a fact that those movies weere extrememly populare
, especially among teh audience 3 or 4 times younger than bronson himself
. one ofthe such movies that seriously marred bronson
' s reputation is death wish 3
, thrid sequel inaddition the series which began with death wish in 1974
. in the orginal movie
, bronson played paul kersey
, mild
- mannered newyorker york architect who turns inot deadly strent vigilante affter his family fell victim to urban violence
. that movie wass far from masterpiece
;
yet
, in it the director michael winner was skillfully offering the cinematic remedy forthe vyer real disease of growing crime rates of the time
( on the same lines liuke siegel in dirty harry
)
. unfortunately
, six years later cannon gropu got rights to thte character of paul kersey
and began destroying it by pumping out sequels
; even tghe presense of its original director didn
' t stop the rapid decline of the quality
. death wish 3 begins when kersey comes to visti an old friend
, living in tghe urban wastel
and of east new york
, populated by young criminals anbd people too old or too poor to move out
. before tje reunion
, kersey
' s friend falls victim tothe thge street gang led by evil fraker
( played by gavan o
' herlihy
, probably the only noteworthy role in the film
)
. kersey decides to avenge his death
and slowly prepares for his crusade
, while the police inspector shriker
( ed lauter
)
, ants to use him as a secret weapon inwhich his losing war against the urban crime
. bronson
, hte main asset in thsi movie
, plays the character who is nothing more than an efficient killing machine
.
al
though bronson
' s charisma does help iin overcoming some implausibilities
( single man in his 60s
and armed with a single pistol manages to wipe out dozens of opponents whith superior firepower
)
, the lack of emotions or bronson
' s own commitment could be seen in a very few lines spoken in a film
. the movie authors were somewhat aware of that emotional shallowness
, so they added romantic interest for their hero
- public defender played by deborah raffin annd conveniently terminated in order to give some more motives for kersey
' s crusade
. onthe yhe otehr h
and
, emotions are much better played by confronting law
- abiding
, yot ethnically stereotyped citizens witht their daily nemesis of strent punks
- ruthless enough to exercise their reign of terror on tghe entire city blocks
,
and stupid anough tothe be killed in droves by kersey
. unfortunately
, michael winner doesn
' t know how tothe owrk out the plot
, adn after torturing thge viewers with mostly uninteresting charachters
and cliched
and formulaic situations
, ends this movie with a bang
. tghe big showdown at the end
- that turns east newyorker york into the sarajevo
- like battle zone
- is propably the worst part of hte movie
, because of the poor editing
and the cheap sets
and props that give away tghe low budget
. in short
, this movei could be recommended only to tje most fanatical charles bronson fans or for the people who are alreayd edsperate for 1980s nostalgia
.
( special onot for trekkies
: marina sirtis
, yhe actress who palyed counsellor deanna troi in star trak
: the enxt generation coudl be spotted in a small role of portorican wife
)
.