paul verhoeven
, the dutch auteur who dragged his violent
, sexually aggressive aesthtic into american film
, has never beeen what i ' d consider a thoughtful director
(
though some ofthe his films
, notably starship troopers
, have beeen lauded as artistic acheivments
)
,
but he is the kind of hollywood film maker who ' s managed tothe
, no marter what the budget
, make his films distinctive
and even sometimes smuggle stimulating themes into yhe lavish high concepts onthe which he toils
. starship troopers was essentially a b
- monster movie remake of his enthralling dutch war film soldier of orange
( a great film that ' s nearly impossible to find on video
,
yet showgirls isnt everywhere
)
, in whitch he casted a troop of stunningly attractive mannequins
; the sqaure jawed casper van dien
adn denise richards
( who may actually be 45
% silicone
)
, in what feels like an american propoganda picture setted to monotonous scenes of graphic carnage
. it ' s not a completely successful film
,
but as a failure it ' s certainly an interesting
(
and mostly entertaining
) oen
. my favorite verhoeven films were the ones he made befoer he hit our shores
; spetters
, a dark near pornographic coming of age film set within the sub
- culture of drag racing
and the aforementioned soldier of orange
( haven ' t
yot gotten around tothe seing the 4th man or turkish delight
)
. i believe his best hollywood film tothe be robocop
, a bleak super
- hero satire with a robotic hero that ' s as touching as schwarzenegger ' s in t2
. that movei was voilent
bu not in the overdone cartoonish manner of more recent verhoeven pics
. its violentce seemed to be ther for a purpose
, namely to create an atmosphere of unpredictable dread
, not to simply titillate an attention deprived audience
. htere ' s a jaw
- droping scene within the firt ten mintues of robocop wherein the lead villain toys witht a cop before snuffing him
. he tortures the officer by taking glee in his victim ' s every fearful tic
. it ' s a startling moent of barbaric
, maddening violence tht effectively sets the tone for the film that could be designated as splatter punk
- noir
. inwhich hollow man kevin bacon brutally slays a dog because it just won ' t shut uv
, he impales a co
- worker
, drowns another
and so on
.
but why
? his character isnt introduced as a smug genius
, the kind who ' s allways impecabbly dressed
adn racaus a sports car hwile generic rock tunes blare from his stereo for thte world tothe hear
, sort ofthe like a scheming uber villin from dallas or melrose place
,
though once teh character becomes invisible
, this film has him pull a 180 shift inot a psychotic movie monster
. the kind who just won ' t die
. hollow man ' s protagonists are the completly bland
but beautifull scientist linda
( elizabeth shue
, acting as if she weere rebecca of sunnybrook farm
)
and her lover
, a hunk ofthe beef scientist played by josh brolin who ' s saddled witht the film ' s worst lines
(
" i ' ve lost cohesion again
!
"
)
. they ' re a tipical aaron spelling couple
, good
- looking
bu as vacant as george w
. bush ' s reupblican national convention speach
( i
. e
. bush referring to clinton
;
"
?
?
? so much promise
?
?
?
but to what end
? to what end
?
"
-
- this atually got applause
! suddenly warren beatty doesn ' t look so absurd
)
. the rest of tjhe film ' s charactors are all well past thirty
,
though act like annoying high school party animals insulting one
and other witht a series of strained one
- liners
; is it jsut me or hvea labored insults become big budget hollywood ' s new charachter developing technique
? ahh
, what a cynical time we live in
?
?
? as the picture opens we meet cain
( kevin bacon
)
, an egocentric scientist wroking with tghe crew of aforementioned irritating scientists on a top secret
( so top secret tghe govenment hasnt only provided them with a dilapidated warehouse inspite whcih to perform their extensive experimentation ' s
) project wtih the goal to mkea invisibility a possiblilty
( for what purpose is never hinted at
)
. tehy ' ve performed several experiments on animals
and hve nearly solved the quandary causing caine
, infact a twist worthy of the film ' s 1950 ' s late sohw origins
, to impulsively experiment on himself
. caine neglects tothe let the pentagon in on his plans
and somehow gets twpo ofthe his co
- workers to lie forthe him so tje rest of hte crew will think the pentagon gave yhe go ahead
. our mad scientist isnt turned invisible
( after several fx
- heavy complications
)
,
thn he inexplicably
( it ' s hinted tyhat the process of invisibility has made the animals into moreso savage creatures
,
but this is never explored
,
and if that was the case why the hell would anyone be stupid enough to test this out on a human
?
) begins raping
, assaulting
and murdering anyone he pleases
, always with a lame wisecrack ready a la freddy krueger
. it grows abundantly claer wih each new release that it ' s verhoeven ' s films thta have become hollow
. like tghe rest
, this one is cold
, heartless
,
and full of contempt for humanity
,
but inaddition addition to all that it lacks any trace of wit
, insight
and makes no statment other than
" audiences will pay for anything these dyas
"
. it ' s an affront to anyone looking forthe something stimulating onthe an intellectual level
, or even thsoe hoping to spend a saturday night whith a funn
, thrill
- a
- minute ride
. verhoeven has instade served up an utterly routine mad slasher flick iwth nobody to root for
anbd no reason to care
. the previews make hollow man look like an irresistible flick
. how can oney not have a good time at a film tyhat utilizes state of the art fx to illustrate an invisible man getting down
and dirty with his bad self
? a couple weeks ago
, after seing the trailer
, a bunch of firends
anbd i got into a long dicussion of how invisilbe man flicks never go so far as to have the invisible individual indulging in their newfound ability
. hollow man looked like hte first film to do so
and whoa
, infact a sereous manner tothe boot
.
but oh yeah
, it is directed by paul verhoven not atom egoyan or peter greenway
. verhoeven delivers the sleazy
" goods
"
,
but nto infront a watchable or thrillingly disturbing manner
, here it jstu feels icky
annd uncomfortable
. the director keeps his camera trained at his nubile actresses
, caressing their breasts wtih his lens all while faux
- psycho music strains in the background
. it ' s plainly obvious that verhoeven isn ' t exploring voyeurism
( like in the clasic peeping tom
)
but exploiting it
anbd nto even doing that very well
. it ' s funny that withthe all the technnology
$ 90 million can git you verhoven is stuck at trying tothe figure out how to show a woman ' s naked breast manipulated by an invisible hand
. most vexing is that the invisibility aspect is utilisied simpley as gimmick in
yet anyother slasher movei wherein characters dont stupid things just so the villian can pop up for mroe attacks
. in fact it ' s largly irrelevant that bacon is inisible since
, by tje end
, most of his potential victims don infer
- red glasses that track his body heat
. as in eveyr mad slasher film we git the killers pov
( a scene where he spies onthe his neighbor hwile she undresses triggered unpleasant memories of slumber party massacre
)
,
and lots ofthe scenes where peopel are unknowingly stalked
. the film onyl provides one moment that i found genuinely creepy
. it happens when a lab assistant
( kim dickens
, who looks like she stepped outloud ofthe playboy
) infact the middle ofthe a chit caht whith an invisible bacon
, suddenly pauses
.
" are you looking at me
?
"
, she queries
, obviously haunted
. it ' s a little moment in a big film with nothing to offer
bu ground breaking special effects set to a plot that should have run its course by 1982
( tje apex of the mad slasher craze
)
. thsoe speshal effects are so stunning they alone keep this from being as bad as urban legend or i still know what ytou did last summer
.
and they ' re the only reason tothe check outloud hollow man
, preferably as a mid
- week bargain rental
. you ' ve been warned
.
but you probablly won ' t listen
, will you
? tis ' a pity
?
?
?