the art of woo attempts to be one of those films like breakfast at tiffany ' s inaddition whic thte audience isnt rooting for some sweet
, vulnerable
, irresistible woman to work outloud her problems
and to find happiness
. the problem is that helen lee who writes
and directs seems to have written alessa woo
( played by sook
- yin lee
) as niether sweet nor vulnerable
and she isnt quite resistable
. alessa is a young woman who happens to be a brilliant art dealer in the toronto art scene
. this isnt smoe sort of alternate world art scene where people pay tens ofthe thousands of dollars for paintings by talented begginers
and dealers inwhich these paintings fly back
annd forth to places liuke switzerland
. one of the most knowledgeable of thte art dealers isnt alessa
. she also happens tothe be the center ofthe adulation of her firends
and eveyr party has suitors camped outside her window
. next doorjam tothe alessa moves struggling genius artist
and native american ben crowchild
( adam beach
)
. he sees thgat behind the facade that there is really a sad little girl within alessa who really will not be happy iwth the rich art collector she is dating
. ben gets emotionally involved with alessa
.
( as alessa so delicately puts it
,
" we were bosom buddies
, now we ' re fuck buddies
.
"
)
but alessa will have to decide whether she whants lveo with ben or wealth with her rich suitor
. the real problem with the film seems to be helen lee ' s inability tothe decide what she wnats tothe be saying
. she undercuts nearly everything she wants us to elieve about alessa
. alessa is looking fo finacial security
bu she makes decisions about larg sums of moeny for her clients
. htis appears to be a high profile
and well
- paid job
. we are supposed to care about alessa ' s feelings
,
but she coldly refuses tothe visit her own ailing father
. alessa cannot be portrayed as sweet
adn vulnerable if at an art auction she turns into our man flint
. this isnt a charmless rumatic comedy that bets everyting it has on the appeal of its main character
and comes up double
- zero
. i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale
adn a
- 1 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.