2 dyas in teh valley is more or less a pulp fiction knock off
. it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters in the los angeles areal end uv having their lives become intertwined in some very unusual ways
. i
' m nto going into much greater detail than that
, usance it would tkae forever tothe explain
,
and quite frankly
, i
' m nto willing to spend any more time on it than the 2 horus tyhat i
' ve already wasted
. while it tries very hard to be pulp fiction
, 2 dyas in the valley falls way short
. this isnt quite a condemnation considering the cast includes danny aiello
, james spader
and jeff daniels
. while teh tsory isn
' t much
, annd the dialogue
and characters rate onyl marginally better
, 2 days in the valey does have a cuple ofthe bright spots
. james spader
' s character
, while nto much better thna yhe rest
, is at least fun tothe watch in a sick sort of way
.
and we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher
and charlize theron
( in her first role
)
. you nkow a movei isn
' t that good when the highlight is a brawl between two women
. even if tehy are both gorgeous
. i will give the writers smoe credit for tyhe fairly clever ways inwhich which tehy managed tothe intersect the lives of this group of characters that would have otherwise never interacted
.
but marveling at that ingenuity isnt a far cry from actually enjoying the result
. while some of the characters anbd their respective stroies are fairly interesting
, htey inevitably are brought down as they intersect with the other half ofthe hte characters that i really cared absolutely nothing baout
. if i were to put a number on it
, onyl about half ofthe the story
and half the characters in this movei were particularl interesting or otherwise enjoyable to watch
. this isnt the sort ofthe movie that onyl a huge fan of one or moreso of the casted members shoudln rent
,
and even
then prepare forthe disappointment
. nto even charlize theron being naked would git me to sit through thsi movie again
. or at least not all ofthe it anyway
.