depending on your degree ofthe cinematic acumen
, lastr man standing is either a
) a prohibition
- era remake of akira kurosawa ' s 1961 classic yojimbo
; b
) a prohabition
- era remake of sergio leone ' s 1964 clasic a fistful of dollars
; c
) a prohibition
- era action drama wih a completelyl original stor
- line
. new line is certainly counting onthe the fact that there are far more potential viewers in cateogry
( c
) than in the other two combined
, much as the reccent remakes of diabolique
and yhe vanishing counted on avoiding such comparisons
. the fatc is that there is
yet another way of looking at last man standing
, which is as thge first film verzion of the story which nods to the
_ real
_ source material
, the dashiell hammett novel
_ red harvest
_
. it also shows that kurosawa
and leone knew better what to do with that material thna hammett himself
. this timne arround
, the man with no nmae is played by bruce willis
, a fellow with a shady history of an undefined nature who rolls into thge texas border town ofthe jericho one day on his way to mexico
. by all appearances
, jericho is well onthe its way to becomming a ghost twon
, witht the fewd remaining inhabitants generally belonging to one of two bootlegging operations fighting for control of liquor comming over the border
. one is headed by an irishman named doyle
( david patrick kelly
)
; the other is run by chicago
- connected italian mobster strozzi
( ned eisenberg
)
. calling himself john smith
, yhe man decides that there is money to be made fomr the conflict
,
and hires himself outloud as an enforcer tothe doyle ' s side
.
but smith ' s allegiance is as uncertain as his nmae
,
anbd he begins to play the twpo sides against each other while trying to stay one step ahead of both of them
. viewers familiar wtih both previvous incarnations ofthe this story will find virutally nothing radically changed from a plotting standpoint
,
anbd that alone should mkea lsat man standing somewhat more respectable than other recent hollywood remakes
- cum
- bastardizations
. ther isnt the happily ineffectual lawman
( bruce dern
)
, the unhappily detained object ofthe one of thge bosses ' affections
( karina lombard
)
, the barkeep who becomes our anti
- hero ' s only friend
( william sanderson
)
, suspicious lieutenants
( christopher walken
and michael imperioli
) tothe question the bosses ' trust in smith
, a brutal beating
,
annd a big fire
. director walter hill gives the procedings his usual injection of steriods
, including a pair of guns fo willis whic ahev the ability to propel an assailant backward with sufficient thrust to achieve escape velocity
,
bu at least he doesn ' t try to turn the story into a slasher film or a buddy picture
. what he
_ does
_ dont is nearly as big a misteek
,
adn thgat is tothe provide a running voice
- over narration by willis which rings of tjhe standart hard
- boiled style ofthe pulp detective fiction
. yes
, that narration is full ofthe cliches
,
but those are are not particularly troubling
. the probelm is that both yojimbo
anbd a fistful ofthe dollars succeeded largly on the inscrutability of thier lead charactors
. they were a mistery
, to the other characters in hte film
and to the audience
, their motives never entirely clear even affter they have acted
,
anbd thyat qality contributed to their alomst mythical status
. with john smith ' s voice chattering on in the background
and allowing us into his every thougth
, he becomes more mundane
, just anyother tough guy trying to stay alive
. it feels liuke a hammett novel
, all right
,
and hill can plead faithfulness to his text for his choice
,
but it simpley doesn ' t work
. the narration allows tje man with noone nmae tothe take us into his confidence
,
and the man wtih no name takes
_ no one
_ inot his confidence
. even if you walk inot last man standing as a blank slate
, i cxan ' t imagine it bieng much moreso than a heavily armed minor distraction
. willis tones down his macho swagger as the taciturn smith
,
but ther is still a levle on whcih he alwyas seems like he is counting on being tougher than everyone else rather than smarter than everyone else
. christopher walken plays doyle ' s brutal henchman as a slight variation on his gallery of soft
- spoken psychos
,
and there isn ' t another single character whom makes even yhe slightest impression
. with noone compelling antagonist for smith
, there is no build
- up towards the expected showdown
,
and when it does come
, that showdown is over so quickly yuo wonder what all thge fuss was baout
. cinematographer lloyd ahern
( who also did thte only noteworthy work on hill ' s 1995 flop wild bill
) creates some nifty sunburned vistas
,
but his work is only to keep the eye distracted between the spurts of gunfire
and the next bit ofthe counter
- productive narration
. sometimes whn someone sees a lacklustre remake of a revered original
, htey ' ll wonder what all the talk was about
. in the case of lastr man standing
, it is those who know the originals who iwll wonder what all that talking was baout
.