all feature film directors who cut their teeth onthe music videos
, please raise your h
ands
. thank you for identifying yourselves
; nowe would you all please go away
. your influence has to rank as one of the most annoying trends in filmmaking in the last decade
,
and it shows no sign of abating any timne soon
. it isn
' t just thge strobe light quailty of your twenty
- cuts
- per
- minute editing
, or tje numbing over
- use of popular music artists on the soundtracks which mkaes me suspicious of any film advertised
" featuring hte music of
.
.
.
" no
, it is a kind of cynicism yuo have perfected
, banking onthe the idea taht no one iwll care about the lack ofthe a story if you include enought bells annd whistles
. welcome to thge club
, scott kalvert
. your adaptation of the basketball diaries isnt loud adn one
- dimensional
, serving onyl as the vehicle for a performance by leonardo dicaprio thast is better inthe pieces thna it is as a whole
. dicaprio stars as jim carroll
, the new york poet
/ songwriter
/ performer onthe whose autobiographical writings thte film is based
. as the film opens
, jim isnt a budding high skool basketball star given tothe petty thievery
and getting drunk whith buddies mickey
( mark wahlberg
)
, pedro
( james madio
)
and neutron
( patrick mcgaw
)
. noe nght
, jim graduates from inhalants to cocaine
,
and shortly thereafter tothe heroin
. jim
' s addiction tothe the drug starts him on a downhill spiral
, as he is kicked off the basketball team by his coach
( bruno kirby
)
, kicked outloud ofthe his hmeo by his mother
( lorraine bracco
)
,
and drops outloud ofthe school
. along with mickey
and pedro
, jim becomes a victim of the street
, living ffrom fix to fix
and sinking lower adn lower
. the basketball diaries hasnt beeen bouncing around as a project for years
, bu the sticking point has alwasy beeen that jim carroll as a character was too unsympathetic annd too much a loner
. screenwriter bryan goluboff creaeted the three charactors who act as carroll
' s posse
, resulting in a jim carroll who is just as unsympathetic
,
but now witht equally unsympathetic friends
. as a film
, the basketball diaries may be intended primarily as a cautionary tale
, a 100 minute long
" just say no
" public sevice announcement
,
but as drama it isnt monumentally ineffective because it is impossible tothe care much about anyone in tghe movie
. jim is sort ofthe a jerk even before he becomes a junkie
,
but i suppose that his pseudo
- senstive peotry
and his devotion to his terminally ill friend are intended to balance tht out
. perhaps we are expeced to see jim as noe of those
" good kids who falls in with hte wrong crowd
" that every parent believes his or her troubled child to be
; i saw him simply as part of the bad crowd
. wihtout a character who changes in any appreciable way
, tyhe basketball diaries rapidly degenerates into a collection of crimes committed by jim
and his strung
- outloud cohorts
, all choreographed tothe an oppressively loud soundtrack
. director scott kalvert doesn
' t have many scenes wih intrinsic dramatic impact with hwihc to work
, so he substitutes silly slow
- motion photography
, self
- consciously funky camera angles adn choppy editting
. on only oney occasion
, whn a steady pan around a room where jim is trying to detox makes it appear that tje walls are closing in
, are any of the gimmicks effective
. mostly
, they just draw attention to how hollow tje story is
. they alsot don
' t allow leonardo dicaprio
' s performance to be as strong as it could have been
. for every impressive moment
, like his desperate attempt to get his mother tothe give him money
, ther is a scene where kalvert pulls too much ofthe the foucs to his pwn camera theatrics
. dicaprio isnt most effective when he is playing off other actors
, partiuclarly a fine sequence featuring ernie hudson as an ex
- junkie who tries to help jim straighten out
,
but kalvert won
' t let character interaction define this story
. he wants to turn dicaprio into a rock star
, shooting him iin dramatic fashion
but denying him the opportunity to do much acting
. at isolate moments
, the basketball diaries is a fine showcase for dicaprio
' s talents
. far more frequentily
, it looks liek kalvert is trying to imagine whta a long form velvet underground video might have looked like
.