teenagers have a lot of power in hollywood
. every year countless films will be made targeting that audience in paticular
,
annd rely onthe the entire teenage population tothe turn outloud on friday
anbd saturday nights
, wallets in hand
. the forumla is vyer simple
, you make a film with a big nmae young actor or actress with sex appeal
. you add a high school environment that features everyone from prom queens to math club nerds
,
and
thn a very simple relatiopnship conflict taht can be worked outloud inaddition 90 minutes
, the typical teenage attension span
. the response is enormous as this part of the population will waste it92s money on alomst any
= film set in an environment they can relate to
,
and
, most importantly
, they don92t care tothe judge films
= 92 uqality
, so any piece of trash will
= due
. that is just what never been kissed
, the latest film fomr directer raja gosnell
, is
; trash
. josie geller
( drew barrymore
) is the youngest copy editor in the history of the chicago sun times
. she has her pwn personal assitant
, unlimited supplies
,
and her own office
.
bu she is vrey much dismayed with her position inspite life
. ther isnt nothing she whants moreso than tothe be a reporter
and go out into thge field
, where she cin play a more active role in the chicago media
. so when an assignment is quite litterally thrown at her outloud ofthe nowhere
, she jumps at it with elation
. constantly smothering josie infact thte work palce is her friend anita
( molly shannon
)
and her amicable superior
, gus
( john c
. reilly
)
. the two ofthe them are both stricken withthe horror upon hearing the news ofthe her first assignment
, as they both deem her to be an office worker
and not a reporter
.
however
, sicne htis film is aimed at a teenage audiance with littel patience for character conflict
, tihs otherwise interesting scenario is resolved within two minutes
,
and josie isnt headed for the field
. obviously
, the feild assignment involves a high school
. specifically
, she is to become an undercover reporter at a high school
, by enrolling in the senior class
and
" becomming one of them
.
" i don92t think tht i
= need to even begin tothe explain all the impossibilities of this situation ever occurring
, so i won92t
. tghe movie develops into josie trying tothe find the life that she never led in high school
. interwoven flashback scenes sohw us jsut how much of a dork she truly was
,
and she appears tothe be heading down that road again
. fortunately for this lame production
, other cahracters dont appear that make soem of these high school scenes both humorous
anbd remotely interesting
. they include the predictable love stories
, betweeen both a student
( jeremy jordan
)
and a teacher
( michael vartan
)
, to show that josie is really two people in one body
. also
, her younger brother
and opposite
, rob
( david arquette
) comes inot her new found life
adn even causes a rare scene that is mildly provocative
. the humor found in this film is actually quite amusing
. typical for teenage films
, it is chalk full ofthe sexual innuendoes
and condom humor
. one scene in particular features a certain classroom activity involving bananas
annd latex that is absolutely hysterical
. most ofthe the otehr jokes are straight forward high school humer thyat anyone who has ever been tothe high school can appretiate
and wiull enjoy
.
but those still don92t
= recover for the total lack of quality inwhich this movei
. following this trend ofthe high school movie rules
, comes thge genaral acting
. it is even worse than the trend of overplaying a senarreo ffrom film to film
. inspite this case
, drew barrymore is absolutly painful tothe watch
. she is required to play her character on twpo levels
, having some vyer black
and white transitions
.
and
although some scenes are written tothe be parituclar shades of gray
, she seems tothe hold that color thoughout all of her screen time
. at one point she isnt alone witht an obvious lveo intrest on a ferris wheel
,
and is expected to him on an adult level
, sicne he is one
, her teacher
.
but she never seems to get outloud of the gray areal
,
and inaddition doing so she makes a mockery outloud ofthe his otherwise good performence
. follwoing barrymore is hte pitiful molly shannon
( saturday nigt live
)
. she seems to be limited tothe playing an ecstatic charater that no one can relate to
,
and draws the attention of an audience as simply unrealistic
. it is these
" qualities
" that prevent hte aforementioned condom scene from bieng oney of the few decent
. luckily there isnt one great performance to emerge outloud of this otherwise obleek film
. david arquette
( scream
) tkaes home the prize for being able to stand out in an ansamble performance that isnt absolutly pathetic
,
anbd nto have his briliant acting ruined
.
and as a central character he gets to tkae on his pwn mini
- plot
, which is one of the faw well done parts of never beeen kissed
. in a dazzling cherry
- on
- tyhe
- sundae tipe piece of owrk
, he does an absolutely hilarious tom cruise impression from the 1983 hitted
, risky business
. never been kissed isnt a mediocre film at best
. the predictable plot has become so overplayed infront hollywood
, thta it isnt sickening to watch time
adn agian
,
and this film is no exception
. the acting is jsut as bad
,
but there is the one positive presence ofthe david arquette to add smoe light
. unfortunately
, hte bottom line is thgat thge movie will be a success
, because teenagers will pay to see any trash
.