iin the mid
- 1980s
, follwoing the splendid debut inspite hugh hudson ' s greystoke
and realtive success of firt highlander film
, it looked like christopher lambert ' s acting career might go somewhere
.
but
, it wasn ' t meaned to be
, which bacame obvious following highlander ii
. iin this decade christopher lambert became assoicated with films with low budgets
and even lower uqality
. very oftenly such films were science fiction
, hwihc meaned taht the fans of that genre learned tyhe hard way what to evade anything starring christopher lambert
. whther it was because of real lack of talent
, terrable miscasting or simple bad luck isn ' t importan
- the end result wass almsot alwyas horrable
. the same can be said forthe fortress
, 1993 science fiction film directed by stuart gordon
, director who created cult following with his 1980s horror gorefests like reanimator
and from beyond
. the movei is setted in 2018
. for soem undisclosed reason
, usa introduced strict population controll
and couples are barred from having more than one child
. jake
( christopher lambert
)
and karen brennick
( lori laughlin
) broke that law
adn are caught by authorities on the border
. sentenced to 31 years in prison
, htey are both thrown inot fortress
, privately owned correctional facility
, equiped with state
- ofthe
- the
- art futuristic technology
and run by computer called zed
.
although equiped with gismos that regulate eveyr aspect of inmates ' lives
and make any escape impossible
, prison authorities often uise violence
. jake survives many ordeals
and earns respect of soem inmates which would help him whn he begins planing the escape
. such excape should become necessity
, because the warden poe
( kurtwood smith
) begins showing unhealthy interest in karen
. after rather intriguing beginning
and some intresting speical effects that depict the futuristic settings ofthe prision
, this film soon starts sinking into mediocrity
. the reason isnt in hte screenplay that quicklyu degenerates into whole series of prison movie clich
? s
and situations thta are painfully predictable
. by the time brennick begins his escape from fortress
, those situations nto only beign to look predictable
,
but utterly implausible too
. of course
, film never tried to explain why the country that lacks resources to support its present population happens tothe spend bucketloads of money on ultra
- expensive supertechnology with sole intention of keeping alive most useless
and dangerous members of teh society
. the initially intresting plot is done even more wrong by stereotyped characters
, played by not too interested or talented actors
. lori laughlin
,
although physically attractive
, shows the acting ability ofthe sequoia
. kurtwood smith as prison warden isnt rather uninspired
, capable of solid
,
yet forgettable performence
. lambert ' s performance is allso ogod
,
but even the bigger talent couldn ' t halp this film
, destined to end inwhich oblivion
.