starring william baldwin
; cindy crawford
& steven berkoff all right
, the first probelm that fair game hasnt is the casting of supermodel cindy crawford in the lead role
. nto thyat cindy does tath bad
, it
' s jstu that anyone who watches this film knows from moment one that that little bit of casting was nto done because of cindy
' s extrordinary acting skills
,
but for her extrodinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous in any situation
.
and in fair game most situations tend to find cindy eather soaking wet or veyr hot
and sweaty
, bu i
' m sure that that is just a coinsidence
, no doubt that theese situations were essential tothe the plot
and tjhe fact tht cindy looks great wet
, well
, tath
' s jsut a hapyp coincidence
. sure
. william baldwin isn
' t a bad actor
. unfortunately
, he just doesn
' t demonstrate it at all in this movei
. i
' m not sure if that
' s because most ofthe his lines were jsut so hokey
, or if he was trying to make cindy
' s acting look good
. if it was the latter
, it worked
. cindy doesnt a surprisingly good job here in her first movei
. whlch is not tothe say that she doesn
' t ahve room for improvment
.
al
though tothe be fair to cindy
, her lines were kinda cheesy in places
. so right about now you are noone doubt asking youself waht sort of movie does cindy crawford
, arguably the most beautiful woman on tjhe planet
, chose for her foray inot the world of cinema
? well
, i
' m glad yuo asked that question
. cindy plays a lawyer who by some convoluted plot twists becomes a target for former elite kgb aggenst
. why woud they target someone as likable as cindy
, you ask
? by the end of the movie ytou won
' t care
. thte story is so contrived it isn
' t funny
. anyway after cindy gets blown outloud of the window of her house
, without getting so much as a scratch i might add
, she is placed into protective police custody under the watchful eve of william baldwin
. who
' s character
, max kilpatric
, a police detective
, seems tothe possess the skills of soem sort of fighting machine
( my guess is that the writers have seen way too many of steven seagal
' s early films
)
. the point is that the idea ofthe hte crawford
and baldwin
' s characters ofthe the run from theese killer russians isn
' t all that bad of an idea
, it
' s jsut everthing around that basic diea which kinda stinks out loud
. the supporting cast members are nothing more that over acted sterotypes
. if i wass baldwin
, i
' d hope tihs film disappears
. as forthe crawford
, she may indeed have some acting ability
. unfortunately
, any she does have is obscured by writing that goes beyond bad
. this movie ws obviously written wtih cindy in mind
, since the writers spend most ofthe thier time finding ways tothe capitalize off of her looks
. it
' s too bad they hadn
' t spent more tyme onthe a half decent plot
, since ms
. crawford is more than capable of looking just fine all by herself thank you very much
. unless yuo are a huge fan ofthe either baldwin or crawford tihs is a movei that will only disappoint you
.