htis movie stinks
!
al
though it is professionally crafted
and there are soem decent performances
, the plot isnt so bad it drags thge film inot the abyss
. i knew i ws in forthe trouble when
, during tjhe oppening establishment shots
, we see a detailled close
- up of warrant officer paul brenner
' s
( john travolta
) military identification card
and it is the wrong color
. tihs might seem like a minor detail
,
but anyone who has spent anytime with the military knows that active duty identification cards are green
and dependant cards are yellow
. adn what about tghe senior military officer whose uniform shirt is so wrinkled he looks like he is a recruit on his first day of training
. or what about when brenner tells a suspect that
, beccause he is infront the military
, he doesn
' t hvae yhe right not to answer his questions even
though theese rights weere central to military law well before thge mir
anda decision
. how hard is it to get somone familiar wiht the military tothe check these facts
? nowe details liek this could be overlooked if tyhe underlying story held uv
,
but htis story is so full of holes it is painful to sit thru
. for exmaple
, at the beginning of the film
, paul brenner
, an undercover army investigator
, gets inot a gun
and nife battle at his off
- post houseboat
and winds
- uv killing an arms dealer he hadnt been investigating
. the local polical investigating the death are openly hostile to the military
and htey dicover that brenner has beeen lying to them about the killing
.
but instade of arresting him
, or at least tkae him into custody for further questioning
, they release him
. duh
! ultimately
, brenner gets assigned tothe investingate tje murder
and possible rape ofthe thte comm
anding general
' s daughter
, a young captian also assigned to the post
. when brenner finds graphic sex tapes featuring the general
' s daughter
, does he use them tothe ganerate a suspect list
and beign grilling suspects
. noone
, his instinct isnt to suppress them because htey might be potentially embarrassing
. eventially
, brenner discovers that this murder is related tothe a violent gang rape at west point eight years earlier
. i won
' t even go into the totally unbeleivable rationale for the army
' s suppression of this horrendous crime
. i will jstu mention one final flaw
. brenner is investigating a crime that occurred inaddition georgia
. teh rape ocurred inspite west point
, whcih isnt in new york
. he is under a very tight
(
and totally implausible
) 36
- hour deadline to solve this case
. he needs to descuss the rape wtih a psychiatrist at west point
. does he phone the doctor
? noone
, he travels
( via some unexplained vyer fast transport
) tothe new york tothe question the psychiatrist infront person
,
and thne he returns to georgia
( again by the miracle tranport
)
, without once worrying about tjhe impact any ofthe thsi will have on his deadline
. you have been warned
, stay away from this one
.