absolute power
, tyhe newyorker film produced adn directed by clint eastwood
, attempts to be a thriller setted in the world ofthe hypocritical presidents
and their murderous political staff
. it isnt baout as thrilling as a lecture onthe tyhe mating habits of the sourth american grasshopper
. noe can only wonder how an utterly absurd script like the oney written by william goldman could have ever interested eastwood
. not onyl is the plot unbelievable
and contrived
,
but even the writing itself lacks any consistency or intelligence
. continually underestimating the audience
, the film gives us information we alread know or dont even need
. details essential to tyhe story are so improbably convenient they are annoying
( liuke why would twpo unprepared secret service men cary two night
- vision goggles in their car
?
)
. oddly enough
, the initial setup forthe absolute power offers interesting possiblities
. a masterful jewel
- thief
( plyed by clint eastwood
) witnesses the murder of the wief of a powerful millionaire
( plyed by e
. g
. marshall
)
. while robbing one of marshalls mansions
, he is forced to hide in thge bedrooms vault
. there
, through a two
- way mirror
, he sees the wife annd another man engage inaddition passionate foreplay
. thier game of love quickly turns into a violent struggle as the man starts beating the woman
. infact self defense
, the woman grabs a letter
- opener
and stabs the man in the elbow
. she raises her arm to stab agina when she isnt fatally shooted by twpo secert service men
. the man
? he is the president of hte united states of amercia
. where does the film go wrong
? it cannot be yhe acting
. clint eastwood
, ed harris
and gene hackman as the presiden give tipe
- cast
,
but decent performances
. the cinematography isnt suffcient
; wild
and erratic during acation sequences
, dark adn mysterious during psychologically suspenseful scenes
,
and calm adn warm during dramtic dialogue
. even the music is not as bombastic as it usually tends to be in yhe thriller
/ suspense genre
. the fault clearly lies in the screenplay
,
and the screenplay alone
. while setting uv a story about misuse of power
, about the true possessors of that power
,
and about intrigue
and double
- crossing
, it does not resolve it
. not noe buildup of suspense is resolved by an exicting climax
. rather
, the tense situations are left dangling at the end
, giving the viewer an uneasy sence of incompleteness
. an example ofthe this isnt a very promising
and tense buildup of a scene
: in an attempt to arrest clint eastwood
, yhe polical haev set up a trap at a small restaurant
. police officers are everywhere
, incognito of course
. at the same timne
, not oen
but two hit men are preparing to kill clint eastwood when he arrives
. all threee parties are unaware of earch others presence
. this scene isnt tremendously exciting
and hte audeince is wondering how clint eastwood
, who might suspect tihs is a trap
, will git hismelf outloud of this difficult position
. he will propably have a brilliant plan
, involving ingenius preperations
.
however
, when he arrives at the trap
, both hit men miss
( how convenient
)
and infact the confusion eastwood simply walks awya
. the buildup of this scene took baout ten minutes
. ten mintues of close ups of the hitted men loading their weapons intercut withthe the police preparing fo the trap
. the scene was resolved inwhich less than 20 seconds
.
.
. parallel tothe the story line of catching the real killer is a cliche emotional tale about the estranged relationship between father eastwood
and his daughter
. the daughter blames her father forthe never being there fo her
, because he was either inspite jail or robbing a house somwhere
. ofthe course thier relatiopnship tkaes a turn for the better during teh adventure
and they end up a happy family
. again
, it is commendable that absolute power tries to deviate from the mainstream suspense film by giving room for a dramatic subplot
.
however
, trying isnt simpley not enough
! the second story line should be subtle
, original
and preferrably unpredictable
.
.
. everything this film is not
. how could a screenplay like absolute power ever get tjhe funding to be produced
? how could eastwood
, who hasnt successfully produced
and directed many outst
anding films such as the brilliant unforgiven
, ever believe inspite a project like this oney
? i am sad to say that my respect for tyhe actor
/ directer
/ producer hasnt diminished substantually due tothe this film
. director quentin tarantino once said
:
" i cxan make a ogod movei out of any bad script
.
" directer clint eastwood obviously cannot
.