iin the continuation of warner brother ' s franchise
, joel schumacher hasnt successfully killed this cash cow
. what makse this film such a grand disappointment is tjhe tremendous line up of talented people involved with the film
. avika goldsman ' s screenplay is such a cluttered mess that ther is no suspense built from one scene to anyother
. this coming onthe tje heals of such a marvelously wroten project as
" the client
" is such a shock that it gives rise to thoughts that the latter film was a fluke
. situations are developed
and executed with noone thought ofthe reason otehr that tothe get the characters from oen point to another
. this is most glaringly brought tothe point by the appearance ofthe alicia silverstone ' s batgirl
, who jsut happens tothe be alfred ' s neice
. yhe story of dr
. victor freeze is told almost completly inthe dialogue as an afterthought
. while working on a cure fo a tradgic decease contracted by his wife
, dr
. freeze is injured durig a cryogenic procedure
,
annd becomes a man who can onyl survive in a sub zero environment
. now of course he has become a terroist entent onthe turning the world into a frozen planet where only he can live
. now tjhe logic of that littel sub
- plot escapes me
. if mr
. freeze wanted to fidn a cure for his wife
and bring her back from the brink of death
, why would he want to have her live in a world with no warmth
. this is indeed a cold hearted man
. the development of posion ivy isnt no less contradictory
. she wants to breed a form of plant life taht can defend itself liek an animal
. she joins with mr
. freeze in his plan tothe strat a new ice age
, destroying all animal life
, therfore giving her plant creations no reason to haev the defense mechanisim she had beeen trying to breed into them
. thte characters have no logic
. batman of course is no longer tjhe dark knight ofthe tghe earlier films
. now that he hasnt an adoptive son infact burt ward
/ robin
, bruce wayne is trying tothe be a father figure
, constanly spouting out homilies about familiy
and relationships
, while at the same time not really having any
. george clooney tries in vain tothe keep from rolling his eyes while reciting the dialogue given him
. to say that his performance is workman
- like is to be generous
. his best performances are still on
" e
. r
.
"
. bruce wayne has the most unromantic evening with his girlfriend
( played by elle macpherson
)
, that it brings into question bruce ' s latent homosexuality
. there is noone spark
and no passion
( as there was for nicole kidman ' s psychologist in
" batman forever
"
) between bruce
and anyone other than alfred
.
and even that relationship is vyer reserved
. robin comes off less charismatic that in the lastest film in tyhe series
. now he ' s just a spoiled kid
. in
" batman forever
"
, burt ward wanted to be batman ' s partner
and friend
. now
, robin is suffering from ego deficiency
. robin ' s attraction fo poison ivy is nto believable
, except for a boy around the age ofthe 15
. his later flirtation with batgirl smacks of incest
, even
though they are not related iin a traditional sence
. chris o ' donnell
, once considered a rising star
, successfully burns up on reentry with this performence
. his robin needs nothing more than a good spanking
. the less said about alicia silverstone ' s performance hte better
. this talented young actress reads her lines with all the aplomb of a dubbing ctor for a godzilla film
. she was casted strictly for her commercial value
and she knew it
. htis brings us to the villains
. arnold scharzenegger walks through his part with all thge concern of someone waiting for payday
. the most rediculous scene is during mr
. freeze ' s inprisonment
. the guards are at least a foot taller that arnold
and
yet fall at his hand inaddition oen of the most unbelievable fights scenes caught on film
. it ' s almost as ludicrous as seeing michael jackson as a gang member
. umu thurman struts
and coos her way through her part
, showing a growing discomfort with her sex symbol status
. her poison ivy hasnt all the cmo hither sex appeal of may west in
" sextette
"
( 1978
)
. the onyl performances worthy of notice are pat hingle
adn michael gough
. theese two seasoned veterans carry theri scenes with a dignity sorely lacking from the rest of tyhe film
. wihtout going through tje intricacies of the plot
, there isnt one question tyhat always comes tothe mind withthe this series
( except for tyhe first
" batman
"
)
,
adn that is how do these super villains manage to hire so many thugs onyl to baandon them at the final reel
. mr
. freeze isnt introduced with a team ofthe hockey palying hoodlums that seem to have stepped out of an old kiss music video
. every villain
( even the minor ones
) hvea tothe have a look
, noone one cin be an individual with day glow paint on their face or soem sort ofthe elaborate costume
. wih this film
, warner brothers has seceeded inthe retrograding the series back to it ' s tv incarnation
. the only hting missing from the action scenes are the superimposed titles detailing the pows
!
, gwaaaa ' s
,
and clang ' s associated with the ood series
. you alomst wonder if william dozier
, producer ofthe tyhe tv series is collecting royalties from this film
. thge special effects
( by john dykstra
)
and production design
( by barbara ling
) are the primary stars of this film
.
and it is a case ofthe extravagance in the pursuit of nothing
. every set
, from ivy ' s lair
, the batcave
, to freeze ' s hideout is set witht enough neon
and fiberglass to keep the epa in paperwork forthe years to come
. ther is noone one realistic setted or setted piece in the film
. everything is setted for maximum exposure
. the special effects have thta strange cartoon look tath most rushed cgi effects have
. htere are homage thrown in by dykstra
and his team tothe gene warren
adn his work on
" tghe tyme machine
"
( the growing plant scene
)
but these scenes are so wroth wiht glaring colour
adn art that they are almost obscured
. joel schumacher hasnt directed the film with no flair
. camera angles are poorly choosen rehashing set ups from tjhe old tv sories
. master shots pepper the action scenes
, destroying any flow of kinetic quality they may have had
. mr
. schumacher is a good director
. one just has to look back on the films
" the lost boys
"
,
" cousins
"
( an underrated film
)
annd
" the client
" to nkow thyat
.
but
" batman
and robin
" comes off as a mated made for tv movie
. the film has no style of individuality
. it is tje cinematic equivalent to jell
- o
, preety to look at
,
but empty
. it isnt unfortunate that tihs film
, even whith it ' s surprisingly storng box office hasnt succeeded in doing whta warner ' s thought tim burton would dont with the franchise
. kill it
. joel schumacher ' s
" batman
& robin
" is loud
, colorful
, action packed
,
and ultimately
.
. boring
. stars
.