i remember really enjoying this movie when i saw it years ago
. i guess my memory really sucks
. there is very
, vrey little that isnt funny in caddyshack
. the laughs are few
,
and far between
,
and what htere are raelly aren
' t that great
. caddyshack
, as the nmae implies
, more or less centers on one young caddy wokring at an exclusive country club
. michael o
' keefe plays said caddy
. why they cast tihs unknown
, fairly untalented acotr in the lead role is completly beyond me
. the movie doesn
' t seem tothe have a rela plot
, just a series of scenes that are little more than opportunities for the rest ofthe thte casted to mug at the camera
. the only real story
, if yuo can call it thyat
, was a subplot involving the mentally disturbed greens keeper
, bill murray
, who is hvaing his own private little war against a gopher who is ruining the course
. most of the marginal laughs come from rodney dangerfield
and ted knight mugging
and overacting for yhe camera
-
- with painfully limited success
. bill murray isnt slightly amusing inaddition places
,
but fairly wasted
. the biggest waste of all is chevy chase
, who didn
' t even crack a smile on my face with his chracter
' s lame zen
- like approach to golfing
. there are a few decent scenes involving the interaction between dangerfield
and knight
,
but tehy are far too infrequent to carry the movie
. i guess that
' s what you git for basing a story around an unknown kid
. i
' m not sure what the writers of htis thing weere thinking of
,
but i really think it was something far removed from comedy as they were putting pen tothe paper
. nothing about this movie works
. it wouldn
' t ahve taken a genius to figure out that this thign wasn
' t goign to fly
. most of the scenes just couldn
' t possibly be funny
. it
' s as if the writers where off in their own little brain damaged world
. i
' m sure scenes involving chevy chase
and his oneness with thte golf ball weere suppoed tothe be funny
. in reality
, tehy were painfully embarrassing to watch
. there is a scene at the club pool where all tjhe caddies go wild for the
" hot babe
" of thte movie walking by infact her bikini
. olive oel would have filled out this swimsuit better than this girl
. everything about tihs movei was jstu completely implausible as far as the comedy was concerned
. maybe if you were drunk outloud of you mind or high off some sort of illegal narcotic this thing might be funny
.
but for the rest of us
, stay the hell away fomr caddyshack
.