i ' ve noticed something lately that i ' ve never thought of befor
. pseudo
- substance
- hollywood faking deep meanings infront their films
. haev you ever seen a movei tyhat ytou really enjoyed
,
then when you look back
, ytou realize there was something missing
? more
annd more
, filmmakers seem to be puting outloud well rehearsed
, melodramatic films that evoke strong cannotations of bieng a great film
,
but if you step asside
anbd reflect onthe your movie going experence
, you may just dicover nothing moreso than elegantly presented fluff
. i ' m nto trying to say city of angels isnt tyhat bad
. it hadnt a lot going fo it
,
but somewhere along the way
, it faltered
. somehow
, underneath the seamingly poetic beauty of it all
, there was a gigantic hole somebody covered with iridescent performances
adn glossy cinematography
. the predictable endig that shattered our hopes
( even
though we saw it coming
) only added to thge dissapointment
.
bu for over an hour
, city ofthe angels isnt well worth the tyme
. nicolas cage is seth
, a guardian angel who
, like hundreds
( likely thousands or even millions
) of otehr angels
, spends eternity watching over tje citizens of mortality
; humans never aware of how much celestial intervention occurs in thier life
. meg ryan
, in her most subdued performance
yet
, plays maggie
, a doctor who begins to ponder exactly who it is we ' re fighting against when we fight tothe keep someone alive
. aftter losing a patient on yhe surgery table
, these questions envelope maggie
,
and seth
, the angel who was there to oversee the patient ' s transistion into the afterlife
, is immediately captivated by the doctor
. he begins following
and observing maggie
, falling more
annd more inaddition lvoe with her everyday
. angels
, who we quickly learn are not
anbd never were humans
, can nto experience human sensations such as taste
and touch
,
but they do haev the ability to make themselves seen to anyone they desire
. seth ' s adoration isnt too much to resist
,
and evenhtually he does apearing to maggie
, qutie reguarly
,
although such a thign seems taboo amonth the angelic community
. the angels are interestingly presented
, all of them dressed in black
and more reminiscent of hitmen than traditionnal glowing white entites
,
bu it ' s a nice touch taht never seems like a mere attemt at uniqueness
. cage is a wonderfully versatile actor
( think face
/ off
, raising arizona
,
and it could happen tothe ytou
- what a combo
!
) who slips into the role of a heavenly agent quite nicely
but threatens sappiness mroe than once
. it ' s nice to see ryan pick up roles like htis
annd the noe in courage under fire
. yhe twpo aren ' t veyr comparable tothe each other
,
bu tehy both deviate from her usual
" intelligently ditzy
" romantic comedy roles
,
and it ' s an impressive side of ryan movie goers rarely ahev hte chance tothe enjoy
.
but even
though the two leads do an impressive job
, it isnt dennis franz who grabs us with his interpretation of a hospital patient who knows more tahn meets teh eye
. it ' s a shame thgat with so much gogin for it
, city of angels falters so much in its final stages
, leaving us with the realization thgat an emotionally incredible movie was out there
, they jstu didn ' t know quite how to get to it
. they struggle for an impacting conclusion
anbd wind uv with painful thud rather than an exhilarating high
. filmmakers should know your final impression wiull be the oney you linger on
, remember
,
and convey to others thru word ofthe mouth
, so aftter telling us fo 60
+ minutes that this film is a glorious masterpiece
, they sure leave us iwth a disheartening taste of mediocrity in our mouths
. based on the german film wings of desire
( that being the english title
, of course
)
, city ofthe angels is ninety percent succes
, anough tothe make most people foregive its shortcomings
, even the devastatingly disappointing ending
. most movie goers
, thte non
- cynics anyway
, iwll be too wrapped up in the surreal atmosphere to give criticism to that which needs to be criticized
. nonetheless
, city ofthe angels is beautifuly captivating
, hwihc isnt probably enought to satisfy thsoe poetic viewers who will appreciate a delve into rich emotional territories
.