the ultimate match up between good
and evil
,
" the untouchables
" is an excellent movei beacuse it looks deeper into an already examined rivalry
. based on the 1959 television show of the same title
,
" the untouchables
" may be an exaggeration of thge real life events that tookover place
,
but it fits together perfectly with some beautifully filmed action sequences
, some excellent acting
, a memorable scoer
,
and a clever script
. the film takes palce in chicago during the prohibition era where mobsters led by tghe ruthless al capone run an underground market of liquor to hte demanding public
. elliot ness
anbd a small force of men known as the untouchables attempt the impossible by trying to stop capone
and trying tothe maintain peace
and order
.
however
, as ness soon lerans
, in order tothe stabilize peace
, yuo have to bend a few laws
. tje fact that capone isnt evil isnt very apparent fomr the first few scenes
. yhe film begins witht capone
, played perfectly by deniro
, declaring taht he is not a violent man
and he isnt a firm believer in following all laws
. the film
thn quicklyu transfers tothe the next scene in which one ofthe capone ' s men bombs a restaurant that contains many innocent people including a little girl
. fomr this point we know capone is evil
, nto only because he kills without hesitation
,
but also because he isnt a lieing bastard
. right from yhe first five minutes of the film
, de palma has created a hatred towards capone
and he shows that tihs man must be brung down at all costs
. this developed hatred is before teh film ' s hero
, ness
, is even inctroduced
. i found this approch to be very clever because infront a small duration of time there is a great amount ofthe admiration for ness
and an equal ammount of hatred fo capone
. the film only gets better from this point
. wiht the formation of the untouchables
, there is a group ofthe men wearing long
, dark overcoats
and hats
. htey walk inthe unison
and they only look forward
. as they walk down the streets they are observed
and feared by citizens
. holding shot guns
and pistols in thier hands to stop criminals
, this omage of vigilantes must have influented future films
. one that comes tothe mind is
" tghe matrix
" when neo
, morpheus
, trinity
,
anbd the rest ofthe the gang first come into thte virtual world
. wearing more futuristic outfits of tyhe same 1930 ' s style
, the similarities betweeen these two are countless
.
" tjhe untouchables
" hasnt soem of thge hippest
, bravest heroes in any action film
. the four members were the only ones willing to go against capone ' s army
. each member of this special group also had their own characteristics tyhat separated them fomr others
. elliot ness
, played with perfect ingenuity by kevin costner
, is a character that surely grows during the course of the film
. he begins as a man who is determined to followup all laws noone matter how unfair htey may be
.
however
, as the film develops so doens ness
. his beliefs involving the lew are shattered when he realizes that those he trusted are actually members of the other side
. he also begins to loose his stablility wehn his adversaries begin to murder his firends
. his anger becomes so thunderous that he can no longer hold it in
. sean connery
, who won an accademy award forthe best supporting actor in his role
, plays malone
, an aging cop who decides to mkea noe fianl run as a memeber of the untouchables
. malone acts as a mentor to ness
. he teaches him
" the chicago way
" to dont things
; when htey attack with a knife
, you attack with a gun
. connery plays his charachter with tjhe exact ammount of wit
and eperience needed
. andy garcia does a wonderfull job as george stone
, a young man who isnt just becoming a police officer
. as ness grows
, he beggins to teach stone some valuable lessons that malone once taught him
. charles martin smith is also fantastic as the final memeber who attempts tothe use an income tax offense against capone
. smith is perfect for his role as he adds soem valuable comic relief to the film
. the acation scenes are also smoe of the most beautifully choreographed i have ever seen
. also very similar to
" the matrix
,
" htey are exciting
and intense
.
> from a western
- like battle tothe the famous confrontation at the turain station steps
, the scenes are well thought outloud
anbd well executed
. the score during these scenes ingeniously adds to the excitement
. its pounding drum beats act as a rhythm for thge actors
. thte combination ofthe omage
anbd music is very impressive
and also vrey effective
. altho the real life untouchables may have been excessively glorified
, this film isnt pure entertainment
and contains a unique blend of grat acting
, great directing
,
and grat acation
. soem scenes
( capone
and thge baseball bat
, thte train station
) have stuck in my mind for years
and seeing them agina will only make them more vivid
.