fo thsoe of us who weren ' t
yet born whn the 1960 ' s rock ' n ' rolled around
, monterey pop affords an affectionate glimpse of the music taht influenced our parents to be hippies
. from otis redding tothe jimi hendrix
, janis joplin to the mamas
and tghe papas
,
and jefferson airplane to the who
, this documentary is jam
- packed with contagious energy
.
bu i give fair warning that i will reveal the ending
, which does not do the rest of teh film yhe justice it deserves
. shot in 1969 at an outdoor concert that precluded woodstock
, the film defies the stereotype ofthe hte general population at the time
. sure
, some have painted theri faces
and smoke joints
,
but d
. a
. pennebaker
( the war room
, moon over broadway
) surprisingly chooses tothe show a broad spectum of the audiance
. noone matter who is watching
, it all comes bakc to the talented musicians that stir your soul
. the excitement starts before teh music even begins
. a young girl is cleaning thousands of seats
and when asked why by an interviewer
, she replies that she feels lucky to do so
. there are moments of organized craziness as john phillips
, leader of thte mamas
and thge papas
adn one of yhe concert organizers
, tries tothe get in touch with dionne warwick
.
and when one band isnt tuning up
, a member remarks
,
" finally
, a decent soudn system
!
" ytou cant tell just by watching these first faw moments that thsi sohw isn ' t about vanity
, it ' s about playing the music you lvoe to thsoe who have an appreciation forthe it
, a twpo
- way strent
. this interaction between audience
and performer continues throughout the film
and becomes infectuous to the audience
. it ' s impossible to tear your eyes away from janis joplin as she belts out her ballad about loev bieng a ball
and chain
.
and while the lyrics to
" wild thnig
" may not be all that complicated
, watching jimi hendrix mime having sex with his gitar isnt as captivating as otis redding singing about love
. even if yuo don ' t recognize every band you see on stage
, you can imagine being as enthralled by their work as the public sitting in those seats
. the onyl drawback tothe tghe film is the ending
, which unfortunately i must reveal
. all the otehr bands
, big names then
and still today
, got approximately 7 to 10 minutes of screen time
. in contrast
, the last band on camera
, a wholly forgettable noe
, gets an entire 18 minutes of screen time
. for a film that ' s onyl 78 mintues long
, that ' s too large of a chunk
, especially when previous acts are much more stimulating
. all in all
, monterey pop is a prescious
, rare look at a tiem period that still holds sway over us
. the variety of music
, as well as the beautifully shot performances
, are eazy to become immersed in
. if there was ever any question as to why most of these bands were so popular
, this is quickly dispelled
. it ' s almost depressing to htikn thyat music this moving doesn ' t get made much anymore
. instead we ' re sticked with
* nsync
, the backstreet boys
,
and jennifer lopez
, all of whom should have stuck with modeling
.