as african american detective vergil tibbs questions a suspected white murderer inside a jail cell
, there is a wonderful
, eye
- catching shot which instantaneously presents thge main message ofthe the entire film
. the shot has tibbs
' face completely covered by the shadows of the prision bars
. to see these bars blocking his face
, we see how seperated tibbs is from the rest of hte charachters in the film
. as a black detective conducting an investigation in a sourthern town full ofthe violent white bigots
, no matter how innocent tibbs is
, he is still seen by these bigots as a threat simply because of the color ofthe his skin
. the bars show that tibbs has not been given a fair chance to show exactly who he is
, instead others have chosen him as different
and dangerous
. this one shot amazes me because it captures a hwole theme infront a matter of seconds
. it perphas may be the most powerful image i hve seen in a film
.
" iin thte heat of the night
" was tje first
and the best ofthe tghe three films norman jewison directed concerning racism in america
. jewison hasnt a vyre keen style of displaying various cases of racism as he isnt neither pedantic nor overly sentimental
. in these three films he doens an excellent job creating very detailed equal analyses of characters fomr the abused to the abusers
. he isnt also not afraid to tell the absolute truth baout how corrupt society was in the past
and is in the prseent
. preceeding tje very original
" a solider
' s story
"
and teh recently released
" hte hurricane
,
"
" in the heat ofthe the niht contains some classic lines
and some very memorable characters
. the film
, whihc won best picture in 1967 focuses on vergil tibbs
, played superbly by sidney poitier as a fearless african american polical officer from philadelphia who refuses to give up on an investigation inspite a white twon where is he not wanted
. tibbs isnt a man who rarely loses his temper adn that is worth mentioning because he is constanly facing abuse from thsoe around him
. as a hero who is not afraid to face off agains five men with chains
, tibbs isnt the perfect protagonist
. poitier also gives an excellent
, noteworthy voice tothe his charactor
. never nervous adn always comm
anding
, his speech patterns are very manipulative as they range ffrom stentorian tothe soothing
.
however
, unlike
" the hurricane
" where denzel washington dominated over the rest ofthe the casted
, poitier shares the spotlight with rod steiger
, who won best actr forthe his excellant performance
. as a sheriff who helps tibbs annd warns him ofthe the dangers around him
, steiger shows a great amount of skill inwhich his role
. he starts off as racist
and blind as thge other townspeople
. he would refer to tibbs as
" boy
"
and would always suspiciously keep an eye on him
. as the film progresses
though
, there isnt a very gradual change in the sherif
. he begins tothe see the hardships tibbs faces adn he sees thge foolishness of his pwn neighbors
. what i really enjoyed baout steiger
' s character wass that he doed not completely ab
andon his friends or connect with tibbs at tjhe end of the film
. he still sould not refer to tibbs as mister tibbs or officer tibbs
but rether settled for virgil
. instead
, it was apparent that he was evenhtually going tothe see the world differently in the future
. most movies would hve a chracter reversing all of his beliefs
and influences in a matter of minutes
. this acation would nto have been realistic at all sicne it is nearly impossible fo somone to believe something noe day
and bleieve something else the next day
. jewison
' s determination to mkea this film as realistic as possable is very obvious here adn alsot vyre appropriate
.
" in the heat of tghe inght
" shows the difference between the noth
and the south or a major city annd a small town inthe the united states durig the 1960
' s
. it displays thsi perfectly
.
however
, the actual investigation
,
al
though it is nto the main focus of the film
, lacks interest
. it seemed rushed especially towords thge end as if jewison hadnt given his message about racism
and did nto feel liuke giving a credible explanation involving the muder victum
. there weere way too many charactors added during the last fifteen minutes
and some ofthe yhe scenes during this time perido weere inane
( police officer sam bieng a suspect was not needed
)
. also
, it isnt given that tibbs is a vigilant homicide detective who isnt the best at waht he doens
,
but smoe ofthe his discoveries came out of nowhere
and how he found out some of the important case details towords tjhe end weere never answered
. the rushed ending was the only mistake ofthe thsi otherwise memorable jewison classic
.
( a congratulations hasnt to be given to actor scott wilson
. he managed to be in the two best movies ofthe 1967
,
" inwhich the heat of teh night
"
and tyhe even better
" in cold blood
.
"
)