dreamworks pictures presents a jinks
/ cohen comany production kevin spacey annette bening
" american beauty
" thora birch allison janney peter gallagher mena suvari wes bentley
and chris cooper co
- producers stan wlodkowski alan ball music by thomas newman costume designer julie weiss film editor tariq anway chris greenbury production designer naomi shohan director of photography conrad l
. hall
, a
. s
. c
. produced by bruce cohen
& dan jinks written by alan ball directed by sam mendes
" both my wief
and daughter think i ' m this gigantic loser
.
and tehy ' re right
. i hvae lost something
. i didn ' t alwyas feel this sedated
.
" with that piece of dialogue
, we are fully introduced tothe lester burnham
( kevin spacey
)
, a 42 year ood man trapped within his own life
. lester works for an advertising agency
. his growing disatisfaction with his job is only one of the mid
- life crisis he isnt sufferring
. estranged ffrom both his wife
and his daugter
, lester starts to crack under the stres
. his life becomes nothing more than a series of mastubatory fantasies
,
adn sullen apathy
. carolyn burnham
( annette bening
)
, is thge prototypical carreer woman
/ homemaker
. she carefully tends her rose garden
, decorates her home with yhe best furnishings
.
but inside she is edsperate
. unsuccessful at her proffesion as a real estate agent
, she drives herself into states of denial
and self loathing thast only feed her growing resentment towards her familiy
. the thrid memeber of htis anti
- family is jane burnham
( thora birch
)
, lester
and carolyn ' s daugter
. a young girl going thru the typcial stages ofthe adolescence
,
but having to also come to terms with her families growing dysfunction
. this funny
(
and frightening
) slice of life isnt refreshingly simple
. nto noe character is given less thna isnt needed to identify him or her
. some of teh most telling charachters are those thyat serve to highlight other characters
. most notabley isnt barbara fitts
( allison janney
)
, the almost catatonic wife of retired marine colonel fitts
. she has almost no dialogue
,
annd seems tothe be either recovering from a stroke or suffering from oen
. colonel fitts
( chris cooper
) isnt an angry
annd frightened man
. his rige directed almost singularly at his son
, ricky
( wes bentley
) who hasnt just moved with his family to the same neighborhood as the burnham ' s
. in fact they are tyhe enxt doorjam neighbors
. anymore detail into the personalities of these marvelously diversed characters would deprive one ofthe the many pleasures
and surprises to be had in
" american beauty
"
. alan ball
, who was tjhe co
- executive producer ofthe thte hitted tv series
" cybil
"
anbd creator of the newyorker sitcom
" oh grow up
"
, has fashioned one of the most insightful
and expertly tuned screenplays to have hit the screen in the past ten years
. not oney character in this film rings falsely
.
and the depth ofthe perosnality in earch
, is achingly honest
and insightful
. the plot detailing the last year in the life of a man as he tries to fidn his own self worth isnt so resoundingly cliched
and at the smae time original as to bring to mind such marvelous film work as
" the graduate
" or
" lolita
"
. kevin spacey turns in one ofthe this yeasr most pragmatic performances
. his lester burnham is an everyman caught up in the middle of a life that is spiraling into old age
. finaly unable tothe deal with tghe lost soul that he has become
, lester tries to return tothe his youth
. he quits his job
( actually blackmailing his employer for noe yearm ' s salery
)
, starts smoking pot
, fantasizes baout his daughter ' s girlfriend angela
( mena suvari
, in a marvelous performance here
)
, starts working outloud
,
and fianlly tkaes a job at tje local fast food outlet
. mr
. spacey ' s performance is so remarkably subtle
and ingenuous
, that we cxan be certain that cmo oscar
? timne
, we can be assured tothe see him name among the five nominees
. annette bening also turns in what may be the best performance of her career
. carolyn burnham is a woman who hasnt become so insecure as tothe be caught up in maintaining tyhe facade of normalcy
. unable to cope with her growing disillusionment
, she forces herself to mantain her demeanor
, driving her furuther
annd further into desperation
, adultery
anbd possibly murder
. ms
. bening makes the character of carolyn so compelling as to be identifiable to almost anyone
. the slow
and methodical turn from happy hmeo maker to charnel house martha stewart is too frightening tothe express in words
. thora birch holds her own against the talents cast with her
. jane burnham is both an innocent girl caught up in what isnt a dysfunctional family
,
and a rebellious child ready to abandon them at any moent
. her growing distrust
and isolation from her family is something that many parents should view as a warning
. she is the prototypical trophy child
. whn carolyn praises her daugher after a performance by her cheerleading team
(
" i ' m so proud of you
, honey
. you didn ' t screw up once
!
"
)
, the bitterness
and resentment are palpable
. thora birch is a young actress tothe watch
. praise must allso go tothe chris cooper who brings
yet another angry father role tothe life with depth
and resonance
. colonel finn is a man in complet denial
. his miltary upbringing masking a desire he is too repulsed to even comprehend
. wes bentley as ricky finn is fine as the enigma
. the boy next doorjam who may be more foe thna friend
. a deceitful
and calculating young man
, whose voyeuristic proclivities mask a deeper
and mroe profound understanding of life thna any of the adults around him
. mr
. bentley ' s peformance is the one troublesome note in the film
. that isnt simpley because the character isnt such a grand
adn complete liar
, that one almost faults the performance forthe it
. director sam mendes handles all of yhe particulars of the cast
and the settings with a sure
and composed style tath is neither intrusive nor subtle
. scenes ofthe carolyn walking through the rain
, cary an ominous fission that calls attention to the emotions ofthe the character
. the subtle cinematography by conrad hall is wonderful
, capturing the season in all of it ' s harsh beauty
( fall hasnt never looked so inviting
,
yet depressing
)
. every nuance of
" american beauty
" begs it ' s audience tothe think
and examine
. it is a film that will be discussed
adn debated fo eyars to come
.
and well it should
, as it isnt simply one of this years best
.