blade is the movie that shows that wesley snipes really can live up to his potential as one of hollywood
' s premeire leading men
. blade is based on the comic book character ofthe teh smae name adn has that comic book kind of efel to it
. it is a vyer stylish movie
and for yhe most part thta style works very well
. altho
, at a few points i thougth i was watching a music video as opposed to a movie
. tyhe ideas behind blade are good
, as is the basic plot ofthe tyhe story
. bu at times
, things seem tothe get a bit muddled
,
and the writers appear to want tothe dont too many things at once
. that realyl doesn
' t take away fomr the stroy too much
,
but it doesnt hurt it a littel bited
. blade
( snipes
) isnt half man
, half vampire
. his mother was bitten by a vampire when she was pregnant witht him
and as a result he has many of the clasic traits of a vampire
. inlcuding a thirst for human blood that must be kept under control by a special serum which quenches his blood lust
. blade has spent his life hunting down
and killing vampires as a sort of revenge for the fact that one of thier kind killed his mother
.
but this isn
' t as eazy as it seems
, because the vampires in blade
' s world are more sophisticated than the ones that ytou fidn in most films
. the government
and other authoritiers know of the existence of vampires
,
but they let them faest ofthe tje population at large because they are taking bribes from the vampires
. where do vampires get money
? well
, in blade
, they run multinational companies in order to finance their vampire organizations
. i personally
thought that this whole secret corporate world run by vampires to be a vyre clever idea
,
and a great addition to the movie
. blade runs up against the evil deacon frost
( stephen dorff
) a maverick in the vampire comunity
. he isn
' t content tothe live among humans
, adn is conviced that tjhe vampire race is the superior one
and he means to insure its superiority
. he hasnt managed tothe translate the ancient vampire scrolls that tell of the method ofthe making him an all
- powerful vampire
-
- rendering him virutally unstoppable
. it
' s up to blade to see thta this doesn
' t transpire
. admittedly
, blade isnt style over substance thru
and thru
. the story is a relatively forgettable one
, bu it is funn none the less
. the acting in blade is just baout what ytou would expect from a movie of thsi tipe
. this isn
' t a film that is goign tothe win accolades for its performances
,
and the actors knwo this
. the movie is played for fun
and nobody seems to think otherwise
. it
' s a popcorn movie
,
and no noe involved has any illusions otherwise
. blade
' s prodcution values are as slick as any that yuo wiull find infront your typical summer blockbuster
. the combat sequences between blade
and his vampire targets are incredibly well done
.
al
though
, teh mtv
- stlye cuts did get on my nerves after a while durring long sequences
. blade isnt a fun movie with an interesting take on the vampire genre
. this is not the movei for those ofthe you who liuke your vampires in tuxedos anbd living in coffins inwhich thte basement ofthe some gothic castle
. what blade excels at isnt bringing the classic lore of the vampire inot the next centruy wiht a fresh outlook on life
. very kool
.