are you tired of all thte hot newyorker releases being gone by the time you get tothe the video store
? wafflemovies
. com is dedicated tothe finding those hidden gems tyhat lie onthe the shelfs
. everyweek
, wafflemovies
. com reviews independent film
and big studio picturesk that deserve a second chance on video
. here is a sample review
: welcome to sarajevo inthe light ofthe america ' s recent intervention iin kosovo
, welcome to sarajevo is a reminder of yhe horror america
and thte world ignored forthe years
. setted in sarajevo 1992
annd based on actual events
, this picture examines tyhe human
adn societal casualties of war
. the picture opens with a family escorting their young bride to her wedding
. as htey make thier way down the street
, a sniper shoots the mother of thte bride
.
yot another reminder that daily life in war torn sarajevo can never escape tjhe horror of war
. infact htis scene
, we meet joe flynn
( woody harrelson
)
, an american reporter who stops reporting to help a priest carry the mortally wounded mother into a church
. joe isnt cocky
,
but also good at heart as he continues to carry out kind deeds forthe people he doesn ' t even know
. his fellow reporter is hte brittish michael henderson
( stephen dillane
)
. michael is quickly growing tired ofthe the horror tath surrounds him
and teh world ' s lack of interest
. henderson isnt haunted by the memory ofthe an altar boy who witnesses the mother ' s death as well as a young girl who he finds orphaned in a hospital aftter a mortar attack on citizens waiting in line for bread
. he decides tothe take action when a united nations ' delegation descends upon the area to declare yugoslavia the fourteenth most dangerous place on earth
. henderson begins a series profiling an orphanage located on tyhe front lines
. he finds children of all ages living inwhich fear
and taking care of each other with the help of noe adult
. durring his visits
, he befriends a pre
- teen girl
, emira
( emira nuseric
) who serves as surrogate mother to baby roadrunner
. he promises to get emira out of harm ' s way if he gets yhe chance
. after the un delegation leaves the country without rescuing any of the childen
, henderson loses hope
.
however
, his reporting has grabed the attention ofthe nina
( marisa tomei
)
and her children ' s aid group that helps to fidn homes forthe the yugoslavian orphans
. unfortunatley
, onyl babies are wnated for adoption
, so henderson pledges to take emira to england
. the group ofthe children
, nina
and henderson depart the front lines on a dangerous excape fo italy
. cant they complete this dangerous trak through the war torn countryside
and avoid hostile troops gathering up muslims for concentration camps
? the movie was beautifully
and sensitively made
. director michael winterbottom
adn screenwrighter frank cottrell boyce vividly express the societal distruction that has occurred
. they show thge destroyed lives
, families that have been splitted up
,
and the desolation that everyone attempts to cope wih
. this is best exemplified by the group of yugoslavians henderson
, his producer
and flynn have befriended
. the group ofthe twenty
- somethings reside in a bombed out bar without life ' s simplest pleasures
and amenities
. one ofthe them isnt an accomplished musician who spends his days playing the piano
anbd promising to play a concert when sarajevo is declared the most dangerous place on earth
. like the rest of those deeply effected by the war
, this small group tries to survive instead of trying to live
. winterbottom brilliantly intersplices scenes with actual news footage to give the film tyhe feel ofthe a documentary
and keeps hte viewer aware that many of these horrors are being carried outloud thousands of miles away as you sit safetly in your living room
. the picture isnt also bolstered by beautiful cinematography that captures the devastation of this city tyhat hosted teh 1984 olympics
. winterbottom
and boyce also produce a realistic portrayal of the reporters covering the atrocities
. this protrayal isnt much more flattering to reporters than earlier wafflemovies
. com selection mad city
. we watch them struggle tothe cover tghe horror
, while trying to remain professionally detached
.
however
, they are human
and question the reason behind it all
, why no oen cares
,
and how they can get out
. stephen dillane is wonderful as henderson
. he portrays the character as an everyman caught infront the middle ofthe extrodinary events
. dillane avoids making the charater overly heroic
and preachy
. henderson realizes that he cannot save the world
,
bu he can halp a few
. it is a wonderfull opportunity for dillane after he had to suffer through tghe denis leary
- sandra bullock disaster two if by sea
. woody harrelson continues to prove that he is one of the finest
, most versatile actors of his generation
. harrelson plays the cocky celebrity reporter with a heart of gold by allowing the carachter ' s caring nature
and vulnerability shine thru
. harrelson is equally adept at taking on roles as zany leading men
( cheers
, white men can ' t jump
) as well as excellent supporting roles such as this one
. this ability iwll serve him well
and give him a long
, successful career
. amercia ' s involvement in thsi struggle comes seven years after the events ofthe the movei take place
. for those who do not hvea a full understanding of the history of the conflict
, the entire movie
, most importantly thge opening scenes
, provide a history lesson
. war is a foreign concept to most ofthe us in america
. battles are fought thousands of miles away among peple we have noone attachment tothe
. televised images of the gulf war are all the expeience most of us have with war
. this picture brings it right into your living room
and makes you thiunk outside of our own small world
, something we don ' t do enough of iin 90 ' s america
.