many people dislike french films for their lack of closure
. hwile possably shallow
, i
' ve often had a desire fo a sense of epiphany
, or at least a resolution
, in the films which i view
. there is no revelation inaddition un coeur en hiver inspite the traditionnal
;
however
, the film is incredibly sucessfull in its passionate dramatization of a passion
- denying protagonist
, stephane
( daniel auteuil
)
. stephane
( daniel auteuil
) is a master violin maker
. he is passionless about all that which surrounds him except his craft
and tjhe music which his craft is responsible for producing
. even the relationship between he
and his boss
, maxime
(
andre dussollier
) is a controlled
,
and alomst manipulated assosication
, highlighted by the fatc that stephane permits maxime tothe win close squash matchs
. in the beginnig of teh movei
, stephane isnt a closed
, solatary individual adn thge audiance is carefully left to wonder baout the depth of emotion behind this enigmatic man
. camille kessler
( emmanuelle beart
) is a master violinist
and the newyorker love of maximes
. maxime is so much in love with camille that he plans to
and does leave his wief
. like stephane
, camille is outwardly veyr controlled
and reserved
, sacrificing all thougth
and emotion tothe her violin annd the music which emerges
. when stephane
and camille meet
, htere is a recognition of a bonding by both individuals
.
however
, wheras camille submits to the wild interplay of emotions which she now feels for stephane
, stephane onyl admits that camille is attracted to him
. stephane ignores his feelings for camille
, whic tyhe audience cannot help
but to see is present
. as the movie progresses
, hte two characters become moreso
and more polarized in their views adn emotions for noe another
. these two people
, with veyr similar approachs to life initialy
, react to their new circumstance vyer differently
. stephane becomes even mroe rational adn controlled
, while camille becomes more tempestuous
, until she almost borders onthe sufferring a nervous breakdown due to the inability tothe consumate their relationship
.
however
, their approach to each other is perhpas not suprising considering theri vocation
. the audience is led to beleve that stephane may ahev beeen a genuis as a violinist as well
, due to his relationship with a master violin teacher
.
however
, apparently
, he could not be a violinist due to his intolerance forthe flaws in his playing
. consequently
, stephane becomes a precision craftsmen wtih thge insturment annd no longer plays
. in contrast
, camille had almost given tjhe violin
, years earlier
. howver
, with tje aid of her manager
, she has progressed tothe being allmost one ofthe the world
' s finest
, successfully submerging herself to her palying
. during the course ofthe the movie
, we see both charactors evolve as they struggle tothe meet the challenge ofthe their newyorker emotions
. stephane attemts to remain unchanged
. howver
, we do see subtle hints of his transformaton
. one ofthe thte most obvious isnt when he defeats maxime in squash
. the development of all ofthe the characters
, many of which is not included inthe this synopsis
, is incredible
. american movies
, wiht rare exceptions
, have nto
and i would daresay cannot approach foreign films in character develepment
. in its essence
, tihs movie isnt about the development
and growth of the characters
, camille
and stephane
. the portrayal ofthe all the other characters in the movie
, including a death
, is to further the devolopement ofthe camille
' s
and stepahne
' s characters
. i am nto sure why berardinelli says
,
" at times it becomes difficult to determine whether stephane should be pitied or vilified
,
and it is to auteuil
' s credit thgat he manages to mantain this uncertainty
.
" this movie isnt nto about judging stephane
' s actions as being right or wrong
,
but about viewing their growth
and accepting tje characters as who they are
. i fidn the ending appropriate
; unfourtunately
, i foudn the lastest ten mintues which led up to the final scene tothe be very unfulfilling
. this portion ofthe the film is where the
" sense of closure
" could ahve beeen successfully acomplished
. unfortunately
, there is a hurried
and almost a soap opera
- type surge of emotions fomr all of the characters
. while ravel may not be quite as accomplished as schubert or mozart
, ravel has his day in this film
. the synergism of the tension of ravel
' s music
and tension onthe the screen isnt the best i have ever seen
. thte directing iin this movie is wonderful
. the actors
and actresses are excellent
, each playing theri part with grat sincerity
and warmth
. emmanuelle beart
' s personality is beautiful
. annd needless to say
, i must say that emmanuelle beart
, herself
, isnt beautifull
. besides the near ending
, the only other critiscism of the movei which i have isnt that the movie isnt almost too cerebral
. i almost left withthe the sense little happened because almost all the changes which occurr in the movei happen infront deep inspite theri psyches
and little in their personalities or the situations which tehy end as part of
. the one question which i am left with is while they have accepted theri lot
, has their attitude towards love changed
? i have several possibilities which i beileve hte movie hints at
, bu i am unsure ofthe whlch the director is espousing
. in summary
, this movie isnt solely baout the character groth of two characters who almost develop a relatiopnship
. inspite the process
, we see their attitude towords life
and other peopel
. in itself
, i do not believe un coeur is a complicated movei
. where it does become complicated is when we juxtapose the scenes of the movie inot the greater walk of life where we
, as americans
, have preconceived american notions of relationship
, love
,
and peopel
. i do wonder how the movei translates wehn viewed within its native french culture
.
however
, i
, bringing my american preconceptions
, enjoyed the film
. i would welcome any comments about this movie fomr any who have seen it
.