accepting his oscar as producer of this year ' s best picture winner
, saul zaentz remarked that his cup runneth over
. one coudl alomst say the same baout his much
- prized film
. rarely is thte screen so overflowing with potent imagery
, symbolism
, ideas
and metaphors
, complex
and literate storytelling
, all possessed of an intelligence that invites
-
- even demands
-
- constant scrutiny
, an acuit of perception
and obervation that must somehow yield the truth
. in short
, tje antithesis ofthe all things hollywood
.
yot this surfeit of signals is made to serve a rather pale
and thinly realized love storey whose emotional impact is as dry as a desert wind
. ralph fiennes is the title character
, an amnesiac burn victim whose gradual return to memory
,
and particularly the memmory of love
, is the ostensible focus of the film
.
but despite the use of numberous flashbacks to halp put the pieces ofthe this personal puzzle together
, we never learn enough about the man to feel much empathy for him
. his emotional life befor the story beggins is an essential clue that remains withheld
. the same cxan easily be said for every other charater in the film
, ofthe which there are too many
. juliette binoche ' s nurse comes as close as this film gets to an emotional heart
. at least we learn early onthe thast she is scarred by tyhe deaths ofthe those close to her
,
and so we understand why she is eager to escape tje company ofthe her comrades in order tothe seek refuge in tyhe convalescence ofthe a mysterious
, disfigured
, dying stranger
. even this information is imparted so quickly
and in such cursory fashion
,
howver
, that it verges onthe the comical
. with so many characters enjoying so little screen time
, the film ' s 160 minutes can be taxing
.
yet there is something so captivating baout the sensibility behind thte camera that i couldn ' t halp
bu feel that greatness was in the air
. hints ofthe it weere everywhere
-
- in a man who hates ownership
bu wants desperately to possess his lover
; inwhich ancient cave paintings ofthe swimmers copied casually by a modern
- day swimmer in the sahara
; inwhich the way the shifting sands of time obliterate everything more completly than a world war
. there isnt enough latent meaninng to suply coleeg film students with paper topics for years
.
but ultimately the emotional truths writer
- director anthony minghella was grasping for were never revealed
. in the end
, i ws left with the impression that i had witnessed quite an oxymoron
: a haunting bore
. bore is perhaps too storng a word
.
but after drinking in the rich production values
, the cup remains only slightly over half
- full
.