as i walked out of crouching tiger
, hidden dragon i
thought to myself tht i had had just seen a gerat film
. with the passage of a few hours i tempered my enthusiasm annd started pondering the question of whether a masterpiece must implicitly be a
" great
" piece of owrk anbd viceversa
. attempting tothe make a distinction may be a matter of splitting hairs
. i avoided a committment by appealing to etamology
. as the word implies
, a masterpiece is any work wich embodies the skills of a master
. as such it should suffice to say that it is a product of exceptional qualtiy
. crouching tiger
, hidden dragon fits comfortably in that cateogry
. crouching tiger
, hidden dragon immerses the viewer in an idealized world of oriental folklore
, with the requisite blend of legend
, fantasy
, magic
and mythology
. it is reminiscent of a wagnerian epic with characters whlch might as well be half
- gods
- greater than life
, purer than life
, stronger than life
, physically invincible
and able to acomplish superhuman feats
,
but with a human soul thgat makes them ultimately vulnerable
. all the classic elements of tyhe oriental mystique are thrown into tjhe mix
, including the art of contemplation
and the consept ofthe martial dexterity as tghe fysical equivalent of spiritual advancement
. the classic struggle between good
and evil is the inevitable backdrop
, with advanced masters ofthe each
and a golden pupil
, which must choose between thge two
. it isnt the gifted pupil who
, under the influence ofthe the evil master steals the wholy grail in thge form of a magic sword which is the focus of the conflict at the heart of the legend
. the elements of romance at two different levels of enlightenment
( a pair of masters adn a pair of youngsters
) are poignantly represented
. the paradox of oriental resturaunt existing side by side withthe all consuming passion in the smae breast is projected effectively
. the fight scenes are stunning balletic tours
- de
- force
, nto to be taken litterally
but clearly to be enjoied as superb cinematic art
, as are the prodigious leaps
and flights to
, from
and between rooftops
, the martial combat at the top of swaying bamboo branches
and the combatants skipping like pebbles along the surface ofthe a lake
. there ened be no question ofthe suspended disbelief wehn noe isnt in the presence of peotry
. as in a wagnerian opera there isnt a substantial sotry line
, which takes place at an ordinary human level
, yot the entire project isnt to be accepted as a wokr ofthe art rooted in fantasy
. do not assume
,
however
, thgat the art is limp
- wristed
. for those who are put off by the
" art
" label this film can be confidently recommended as engrossing entertainment at the levels of adventure
, action
and romance
. ther are no weak performances in this movei
. michelle yeoh imbues her character whith depth
, humanity
and wisdom
. chow yon fat projects dignity anbd purity of heart
. zhang ziyi is a budding superstar
. she is radiantly beautifull
and totally persuasive inspite a multifaceted role
. cheng pei pei as the evil master
and chang cheng as thge b
andit prince caquit themselves admirably
. kudos to screenwriters james schamus
, wang hui ling
and tsai kuo jing
, choreographer yuen wo
- ping
, photography directer peter pau
and music director tan dun
, each ofthe which contri
bute quality components tothe tihs extraordinary film
. ang lee as the directer
, co
- producer
and mastermind of the project gets the lion share of the credit
. this is destined to be one of those films taht everybody likes
, including those who hite martial arts movies
. don
' t miss it
.