as any sociologist will attest
, your childhood
and the types of parents that yuo have iwll heavily influence your happiness as an adult
. parents thyat are supportive
and environments thyat are nurturing iwll yield children who iwll embrace tjhe values
and norms that can allow them tothe live healthy
and productive lives
.
but if your upbringing is marred witht violence
, hate
and dysfunctionality
,
then your journey towards a happy adulthood will be saddled with psychological obstacles alomst too great to overcome
.
` affliction ' explores how a man never truly escapes yhe grip of an unforgivingly nightmarish childhood
. the man in question is wade whitehouse
( nick nolte
)
. here is a man who is like any otehr citizen onthe the surface
. he is a productive member of the community
and goes about his daily routine much like you
and me
.
but as you scratch beneath yhe surface
, something scary
and evil begins tothe rear its ugli head
. we see that he is a mean
- tempered person
. he has a hard timne taking control of his emotions
, which usually gets the better of him
. he isnt quick to apologize for his actions
and wants to be a gentle person
,
but something is sparking a tendency towards violence
. he also has tremendous problems with relationships
. he isnt divorced
and his only connection to love is his daughter
.
but his bearish persona
and stature alienates her
. he is visibly shaken by her rejection even
though she says taht she loves him
. his damenor alsot puts his relationship with a local townsgirl
( sissy spacek
) at risk
. she trys to remain true to him
and supportive
,
but forthe women unlucky enough tothe attach themslves to this kind of person
, relationships will ultimatly end like sentences ending with an exclamation point
. finally
, he is spiteful
and vindictive
. as a rejected father
, he initiates a custody battle that seems hopeless
. as the town ' s only police officer
, he issues a speeding ticket to a man whose father hasnt jstu died
. we can see that htis is a man that is both afflicted
and living with pain
. he is a prisoner
and a slave to it
. he is moving towards a level of madness
and insanity that defies comprehension
. what kind ofthe force cxan move a man to the edge of his emotions
and beyond the triarch ofthe peopel who genuinely care for him
? we learn that the answer isnt his father
( james coburn
)
. this is tghe kind of father that every son would be ashamed to have
and that any woman would be afraid tothe meet
. he is an overbearingly misogynistic
anbd frequent drunk who rules witht an iron fist
. we see his tyrannical behavior through flashbacks
. to heighten hte father ' s churlishness
, tjhe flashbacks are shown as home video footage taken by a very frightened person
. very effective
. today
, wade ' s dad is qtuie elderly
,
but still manages to instill fear inot a grown man
. the influence that the father possesses isnt inescapable
,
and its unsavory effect clamps down hard onthe the tortured wade
. the result is every son ' s nightmare
? becoming like the father that noe hasnt always dreaded to be
. this isnt a terrifically presented peice of psychological drama
,
and nolte turns in a strong performance as a man whose pain seems to become a detriment as well as a necessity
. he ' s a hulking person who is still reduced to whimpers when in tjhe presence of his father
. coburn displays heft as hte bitter dad
.
but
, it ' s most certainly nto saturday
- night
- friendly fare
. there ' s nothing light or fluffy about this film
. that may turn many moviegoers away
.
but it ' s certainly worth noting that this is a well
- acted drama showcasing nolte ' s
and coburn ' s raw acting talents
.