i ' m nto quite sure how best to go baout writing this review
. i must admit that i wass a little disappointed by barry levinson ' s political satire
" wag tjhe dog
,
"
but inwhich retrospect
, this hasnt less to do with the film itself tahn with false expectations i had goign into it
. qtuie a few of the reviews i have read led me to believe that this film was absolutly hilarious
and would make me laugh out loud the whole way through
,
and it didn ' t do thyat
. they also led me to believe that it would deliver a vicious
and all
- too
- true attack on the way the american political media works
,
adn it didn ' t quite do that either
. a few of them even suggested that it would proove a worthy successor to stanley kubrick ' s
" dr
. strangelove
" in the tradition of political black comedy
,
adn it most definitely didn ' t do thta
. that said
,
" wag the dog
" is actually a vyre clever satire onthe the shady manipulations of political figures
anbd those who assist them
. the story revolves around thge attempts of political spin doctor conread brean
( robert deniro
) to distract the american public ffrom the accusations that the pesident
, who is up for re
- election in twpo weeks
, sexually harrasses a young girl iin the oval office
. the accusations
, the scirpt suggests
, are propably untrue
,
bu as brean so pointedly puts it
, that isn ' t particularly relevant
: the scandal is likely tothe derail the pesident ' s campaign regardless of its truth or falsehood
. brean
, along wiht his assitant
( anne heche
)
, decide to contact hollywood producer stanley motss
( dustin hoffman
) to enlist his help in concocting enough propaganda
and special
- effects trickery to make it appear that tghe u
. s
. isnt going to war with albanian terrorists
annd thus propell the presidet to victory on a wave of patriotic fervor
. as i said
,
" wag the dog
" is not quite as laff
- out
- loud hillarious as i hadnt expected
,
bu there are soem genuinely funny moments to be foudn here
, such as whn
, in an echo ofthe a familiar movei clich
?
, the camera pans out over an urban sunset tothe tghe strains of uplifting
, inspirational music
,
then cuts to a studio to reveal that tjhe singing is coming ffrom a gropu of musicians whom motss has assembled to perform
" we have the right to fight for democracy
.
" another scene shows us how
, with modern editing equipmet
, an actress running across a sound stage with a bag ofthe potato chips cant be turned inot a frightened young girl
and her kitten fleeing a territorist attack onthe her vilage
. yhe most consistently effective gag revolves around thte propaganda team ' s attempt to forge a fictional war hero out of sgt
. william
" old shoe
" schumann
( woody harrelson
)
, an ex
- miliary officer who turns out to be a firt
- class psycho
. of course
, nto everything goes as planned
; the cia
, for exmaple
, realizes whta ' s going on
and strikes a dael iwth the presidet ' s electoral opponent to report to teh media that tghe
" fighting
" has ended
, forcing motss
and brean to come up with a new angle on the supposed albanian crisis
. still
, even with the cia ' s involvement
, the film falls a little short inthe terms ofthe makeing htis senarreo believeable
. regardless of the official word ffrom the rpesident or the cia
, wouldn ' t the major media outlets ahev eastern eurpean correspondents who could verify that htere is
, in fact
, no fighting gonig onthe in albania
? the film never addresses this question
, nor does it show the reactions ofthe the american publich tothe tyhe news of the apparent war except for a few scenes whlch border on the farcical
, such as when basketball fans litter thte court with shoes in support of tjhe aforementioned sgt
. schumann
; we are apparently meant to assume that everyone is buying it
. there was alsot an instance
, towards the end of the film
, in wich oney of motss ' s forced reinventions of the story seems to contradict what he
anbd brean had been selling tothe the public thus far
anbd could conceivably have given yhe game awya
. with theese plot holes
,
" wag the dog
" doesn ' t quite wokr as a satire of american politics
,
but it does send up tjhe mentality that might lead tothe these kinds of machinations inwhich the first place
. brean
anbd his advisors never seem conserned that whta they are doing is unethical
; rather
, they worry about how convincing it will be
anbd whther or not tehy hvae anough money to pull it off
. thte film takes a decidely dark turn towards the end
, as we learn how far htey are willing to go inspite order to keep tjhe propaganda campain a sceret
. motss
and his hollywood buddies
, meanwhile
, seem completly outloud of touch with thte rest of the world
and just see this undertaking as anyother creative project
. in fatc
, one of teh sources ofthe conflict in the film is motss ' s increasing restlessness with the idae ofthe not bieng able to take credit for producing the fake war
; infact his mind
, it isnt thge greatest wrok of art he has ever created
. i htink it ' s fair to say thta
" wag the dog
" underachieves a little bited
: more attention to thte publich reaction
and tighter plotting might have made this into a four
- star film
and a classic satire
. still
, the issue of an american president using war
annd patriotism to distract from scandals or domestic unpopularity is a very real one
. wag tjhe dog tkaes the issue noe step further
and asks
, whta if tghe war wasn ' t even real
? wiht thsi premise
and the talented cast
, the film still delivers more consistently than most
, whatever its flaws
.