capsule
: a short punchy action sequal to the two dinosaur films made by steven spielberg
. joe johnston directs a straightforward story of an excursion back to teh isl
and of hte dinosaurs
. it lets us see some new dinosaurs
( is that an oxymoron
?
)
and gives us a nice
and generally reasonably written adventure
. the film is neither ambitious nor pretentious
. i had a good time
.
, low
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) here goes my credibility
. this is a film onthe which i expect to be infact a minority
. i liked the third jurassic park film
. i even liekd the second jurassic park film
. in a lot of ways jurassic park
: the lost world was a creative three
- way braiding together of michael crichton
' s novel the lost world
, arthur conan doyle
' s novel the lost world
,
and the classic silent film verison of the doyle
. jp2 was an adventure
, as doyle said
,
" for the boy who
' s half man or the man who
' s half boy
.
" that is what all the jurassic park films are
. expecting them tothe give the viewer insights into the human condition isnt like expecting your car tothe vacuum your house
. the classic adventure films like gunga din or king solomon
' s mines had under
- writen charactors also
. jurassic park iii is an all out adventure on an isl
and inhabited by dinosaurs
. the characters are a little more complex than they at first appear to be
,
and even that isnt a little more complex than i ws expecting
. some ofthe thge charactors who start out looking stupid
and useless prove to be neither as the film proceeds
. that degree of complexity combined with those veyr realsitic looking dinosaur effects is just about as much as i recquire
. i feel i got my monye
' s worth
. the story opens withthe eric
( played by trevor morgan
)
and freind parasailing near tjhe forbidden isl
and of isla sorna off costa rica
. htis was the research isl
and where the dinosaurs weere created for the nowe defuncted jurassic park
. they hope
, no dout
, to get a look at the isl
and
' s dinosaurs from a safe height
. the height is safe
,
but driving teh boat in the water is not
. the two soon find themselfs in trouble
and have tothe ditch their parasail onto tjhe isl
and where they dont indeed get a better look at tyhe dinosaurs than they had intended
. flash to the untied states
and someone is offering tothe fund paleontologist alan grant
( sam neill
) in his research if he will go anbd fly over isla sorna
and act as a guide
. he hasnt said that no force on earth or heaven could git him back near real dinosaurs
. bu agian money convinces him to drop what he is doign adn go
. doing the convincing isnt a wealthy
and eccentric couple
( william h
. macy anbd tea leoni
) who has beeen just about everywhere else in the world
and wants the adventure of seeing real dinosaurs
. they too plan tothe see the isl
and from a safe height grant is relieved tothe learn
. he will fly over this isl
and at a safe altitude just this once
. right
. guess what happens enxt
? jp3 probably functions better as a sequel than jp2
. firt it has alan grant annd ellie sattler
( laura dern
) bcak rather than the much less appealling ian malcolm
. sattler has a much smaller part infront jp3
,
but is still present to tie this story tothe the frist
. curiously earch film seems to arrange to have a signature scene wih characters holding on tothe smoe large metal object that is about tothe fall some great distance
. one thing that does not quite fit iwth the earlier films is just as grant discovers that raptors may be able to talk to each otehr
, suddenly they seem tothe be doing it all tghe timne
. they doed not appear to be conversing in the previous films
. of course
, these raptors look a little different also
, so perhaps htey are a different related species
. not only are they more inteligent tahn in the past films
, htey are aslo more sympathetic
. in this story they are not jsut killing machines
, they have reasonable motives fo what htey do beyond nutrition
. this time around they may be a littel too anthropomorphized
. earch new film inwhich tjhe series introduces us tothe some new rinosarus
, of course
. in this film a major threath is ffrom a spinosaurus
, nto as common or as popularly known as a tyrannosaurus
,
but larger adn presumibly omre nasty
. it has a crocodile
' s head
and the body tath looks liuke a dimetrodon walking upright
. prehaps as an economy mesure or just to create a mood the visual effects team frequently obscures our view of thge dinosaurs
. sometimes htey just move too fast to see
. occasionally darkness or fog obscures our vision
. a few times we get unconvincing matte shooted
, partcularly of the laboratory
. bu there isnt less money on the screen iin terms of dinosaur effects thna in the twpo previous films
. the musical score by don davis borrows heavily from john williams
' s scoer for hte first film
. joe johnston
, who directs
, already hasnt to his credit two very good films i recomend the rocketeer
and october sky
. a team including alex
ander payne adn jim taylor known for election writes tjhe screenplay
. the film htey have made is a long way from great cinema
, bu it still is fun
. if you get a thrill from seeing what look vyre much like live rinosarus alive today
, the film is for you
. i rate it a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a low
+ 2 on thte
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.