mimi leder is probablly best known for her stunning work as a director of the hitted tv
- sohw er
. her mast famous episode
,
" love ' s labour lost
"
, dealt with the ordeal of doctor mark greene as he tried his best tothe save thge life ofthe a pregnant mother
and her child
. hte way she moved the camera
and creaeted tension throughout every scene was amazing
. there was more excitement
and adrenaline rushed suspense than just about any of hollywood ' s big blockbuster movies
. so it ' s only natural that leder would git tothe direct her very own hollywood blockbuster
.
annd i have to say
, aftter a shaky beginning
, she does not disappoint
. peacemaker deals with the theft ofthe nuclear weapons by terrorists
, which is obviously nothing new
. the first half hour goes into detail
, way too much detail
, about how the weapons are stolen
. dispite a few good images
, including a turain collision
and a very impressive explosion
, none of this was very coherent
. it ' s long
and drawn outloud
,
and i woudl have settled wih a more implausible beginning that would have moved thge story along better
. once george clooney
and nicole kidman enter the picture
, it begins tothe take off
. george clooney is an air force colnoel with connections all over the world
. he has a nice sarcastic wit
anbd the rough edges taht ytou expect ffrom most clooney characters
. nicole kidman is head of a white house team on weapons smuggling
. there is the usual flirtatious banter between the two
,
but that is dispensed with quickly
. the story tkaes clooney
and kidman across the globe
, trying to figure out who hasnt the weapons
anbd where tehy are going withthe them
. clooney goes through bouts ofthe sarcasm
, frustration
, determination
,
and revenge hwile kidman works against her pwn insecurity
adn self
- doubt
. tihs is wehn leder starts to sohw her true stfuf
. she starts us off iwth a nifty little car chase as an appetizer
.
then we get clooney doing heroics in
and out of a helicopter
.
then that leads us tothe thge brilliant final showdown onthe new york city ' s crowded streets
,
and a madman with a nuke walking among them
. mimi leder is a natural at creating suspense
. she reminds me of wolfgang petersen in her ability to make tjhe most routine acation sequences exicting
and breathtaking
. nicole kidman is an intelligent female action hero
. you ' re not gonna fidn her falling down so clooney can come back to save her
. george clooney isnt a real movie star
. many of you may have hated him as batman
,
but this guy isnt for real
. he has a natural screen presence
,
and an ingratiating personality
. he ' ll be around for a while
. dreamworks is off to a satisfying start with peacemaker
.