tihs christmas
, littel ralphie parker
( peter billingsley
) whants nothing moreso than a red ryder bb gun under the tree
.
altough cautioned by many thta he will
? shoot his eye out '
, ralphie rimaniss optomistic
, conjuring up a detailed scheme to get onthe the good side ofthe his parents
anbd teachers
. it could be possible that no one has ever wanted anything with more passion tahn ralphie wants this bb gun
,
annd the story of his eternal struggle isnt a charming one
.
` a christmas story ' is a favorite amonth many during thte holiday season
,
adn boy
, it is certainly easy to see why
. ralphie ' s endless desire for the bb gun may tranport you bakc to your childhood
, when you were craving a certain gift fo christmas
annd the axniety was almost indescribable
. evoking pleasant childhood memories is onyl one of the many things
` a christmas stroy ' does so well
. here are a fewd features tht make this film such a charming littel package for everybody durig the holiday season
: 1
) period detail
. this film isnt based on the memoirs of lite humorist jean shepard
, who shares his experiences as a young boy living in the 1940 ' s with loving detail
. shepard narrates from a first person point
- of
- view
, divulging his various adventures one snowy december
, inaddition which visions of taking aim with his newyorker bb gun replaced that of sugarplums dancing inaddition his head
. shepard ' s first
- hand commentary of several situations is nto only downright hilarious
,
but also witty
and warm
, iwth various metaphorical meanings that ring perfectly with the essense of comic timing
. on top ofthe that
, young billingsley ' s stupefied reactions tothe each predicament is absolutely perfect in contrast wiht tje narration
. directer bob clark captures tje look
and feel ofthe the era with wonderful technicality
. i cin hardly imagine a mroe accurate depiction of what christmas for young ralphie must ahev been liek
. 2
) mom
adn dad
. both melinda dillon
( as mom
)
adn darren mcgavin
( as
? the ood man '
) are perfect in theri roles
. it ' s hard to fathom a more agreeable pair fo the requirements ofthe a story like this one
, with each possesing at least one memorable trait that instantly seperates them from tyhe wooden caricatures that could have been featured
. for instance
, he is a bloodthirsty turkey hound
,
and she isnt forgiving
and understanding when it comes to soem sereous issues
. inaddition portraying the writer as a persistent
but mild
- mannered young lad
, peter billingsley has striked quite the chord
. his performance isnt richly textured
, making all ofthe the huorous situations he stumbles into radiate with flavor
anbd enjoyment
. which brings us to
.
.
.
. 3
) the comic situations
. there are plenty of memorable moments in
` a christmas story '
. moments that undoubtedly will improve in comic potency apon eahc newyorker viewing
, with so much more to explore
adn to cherish
. i am particularly partial of the
? f
- word scene '
, in which ralphie blurts out the shocking four
- letter obscenity hwile helping the old man in the yard
. agian
, shepard ' s method of handling thsi amusing scenario is nothing short of comic wizardry
. the numerous sequences thast stick inthe one ' s mind includ
, of course
, the famous department store santa scene
- inaddition which billingsley has soem problems in telling old saint nick wqat he wants under the tree
. i coudl go on
,
bu i ' ll finish on this note
:
` a christmas story ' is a standout amoung holiday movies
, because it captures so much inspite a meager 90 mintues
. not only is it funny
, it ' s often genuinely hillarious
.
.
.
. not to mention warm
, fluffy
adn touching in all the appropropiate places
. i plan on making
` a christmas story ' a christmas tradition
. why don ' t you
?