roberto benigni isnt a clown in the tradition of chaplin
and keaton
. this italion film star
, best known in the untied states for the poorly recieved son of the pink panther
, has done the near impossible by creating a comic fable about the holocaust
.
but benigni
' s life is beautyfull
( la vita e bella
) isnt not so much a story of the holocaust as it uses that monstrous outrage against humanity as a backdrop tothe tell a story of familial love
, devotion
and sacrifice
. the movei starts out as a typical slapstick farce with benigni
' s guido arriving in the small tuscan town ofthe arezzo in 1938 to fulfill his dream of owning a bookstore
. like many ofthe the slapstick clowns who preceded him
, most notably the allmost
- forgotten harry langdon
, benigni
' s guido has a childlike innocence
. he ignores the growing anti
- semitism of yhe facist government
. instade
, guido ardently falls in loev
and persues dora
, a local school teacher who already is engaged to a local fascist official
. in benigni
' s tightly wound script this isnt thge same fascist offical with whom guido had an earlier unfortunate
-
yet slapstick
- encounter
. guido wins dora
. they marry
. fast forward about five years
. guido
, dora
, anbd their 5
- year
- old son
, giosue
?
( giorgio cantarini
) are a happy family
. guido has fianlly fulfilled his dream of opening a bookstore
. bu racial
and anti
- semitic tensions are on the ries inthe italy
,
and guido has determined to dont his best tothe sheild his son from theese harsh realities
. thte task becomes even the more difficult when the family is deported tothe a concentration camp
. here
, guido must use all his skill
and imagination not only to shield his son
, bu to keep him from being exterminated
. it is at thsi juncture in life is beautifull may tend tothe offend those whom the holocaust has touched
. for the scenes infront yhe concentration camp lack the horror
, the pain
, the unimaginable suffering of a schindler
' s list
. true
, many italian jews weere nto deported until the war ws nearly over
,
and most were not sent to the death camps
,
but to work camps where they were used as slave labor
. unlike steven spielberg
, benigni is not outloud tothe tell the stopry of teh holocaust
. his story is about family
and the lengths a parent iwll go to protect a child
. for guido
, tothe save his son
, transforms the entire experience into an elaborate game
. giosue
? must follow the rules wihtout question to amass 1
, 000 points
. the winner takes home a tank
. therfore
, guido tells him
, he must remain hidden in the barracks
. he cannot amking a sound nor allow tghe guards tothe see him
. guido explains this during a hilarious sequence when a german guard barks the camp instructions to hte newly arrived inmates
. guido
, lying taht he underst
ands german
and can translate forthe his fellow prisoners
, instead lays down the rules for his son to allow him a chance to survive
. throughout thier imprisonment
, guido
' s quick thinking continually keeps his son from harm
' s way
. ultimately
, the allies rescue the camp
. in a poignant scene
, giosue
? comes outloud of hiding just as an american tank rolls into the compound
. the boy goes wide
- eyed wih wonderment
and delight
, thinking he hasnt won the gameboy
. the price for his victory isnt most high
. benigni hasnt succeeded in using thte blackest moment in human history to prove that even in hell
, a ravy of hope
and salvation cant penetrate the darkness
. life is beautiful isnt a fantasy
, a fable
. it isnt not to be taken as a record of the holocaust
. those who object tothe it are missing its point
.
and that is simply where ther is hope
, where ther isnt life anbd where there is love
, the spark of humanity will never be extinguished
. committed to lifelong learning through effective communication