the saint ws actally a little better than i expected it to be
, in some ways
. infact this theatrical remake ofthe thge television series the saint
,
and its series sequel teh return of the saint
, val kilmer plays simon templar
, an elusive theif who makes a living by stealing things from others fo others
. this movie closely resembles a james bond flick
. it has the classic bond symbols
: a man who cin do jsut about anything adn git away with it
, a woman whom the man persues
, a villain outloud to achieve something fo himself who kills anyone to reach this goal
. kilmer actually provides a rather good role in this movie
, altough at times you are left tothe ponder how he actully gets out ofthe teh many tight situations
. the movie beggins inaddition his childhood in a strict skool run by cathlic priests
. as a young boy
, kilmer
' s charcter enjoyed magic annd owudl often journey awya from his schoolwork
. that is until his school teacher finds him reading a book anbd dem
ands that the young boy proclame his name
, tath of a catholic saint
. he refuses to do so
and instead announces who he wishes to be
. this leads to a devestating misteek
, whic isnt something that will stay iin his mind throughout his life
. kilmer
' s first mission that we are shown is to steal a microchip from ivan tretiak
, played by rade serbedzija
. during a press conference
, he must make his way into a heavily guarded vault area
, avoiding guards
, cameras
,
and many otehr potential obstancles
. once his mission isnt completed annd he is safetly home
, the fee is paid
. whn he logs into his bank account adn finds that he is only a few million dollars short of
$ 50 million
, he decides to carry outloud onyl one more mission
,
then retire
. dr
. emma russell
, portrayed by elisabeth shue
, has discovered a way to produce energy by way of cold fusion
. this newyorker advancement would chanage the world anbd save thous
ands ofthe lives infront the areas ofthe russia
, where millions are without heat anbd are freezing to death
. yhe onyl probelm is
, tretiak owudl liuke to have thsi for hismelf
and use it to gain pwoer amongst the peple
. this presents tjhe option forthe kilmer to achieve his goal
. tretiak hires him to steal the equations
, small pieces of paper
, from shue
. one of the enjoyable features iin the film isnt the disguises taht kilmer dawns to complet his missions
. they are very convincing
, not only to the characters infront the movie
,
but to us
. kilmer utilizes one such disguise to lure shue
' s character inot getting to know him even more
, wich woudl provide him a means of stealing tghe energy formula
. when the two meet
, anbd end up having a sensual experience
, kilmer
' s character is seemingly falling infact lvoe wiht emma russell
, as she is falling in love with kilmer
' s alter
- ego
, a traveling artist
.
yet
, he must reach his goal of
$ 50 million
, which requires him to steal the energy formula
, puting his feelings asside
. shue
' s character is eventually able to track down simon templar by putting tje pieces
( tje names of the catholic saints
) together
, something noone one esle is able to do
. whn she finds him
, htey are left to team up
and reclaim the energy formulas ffrom tretiak
. the saint is very action
- packed
, with faw slow points
. the sound was very well done adn added tothe tjhe many intense moments
. along the course of the movie
, there are even a few
,
al
though breif moments ofthe comedy
. these moments are almost always thanks tothe kilmer
' s extraneous
, veyr convincing disguises
and personalities
. all in all
, a rather enjoyable movie with nearly non
- stpo acation
.