it ' s a fact that a good thriller or action movie doesn ' t ened violence to be good or worth watching
. all it tkaes is potential violence to amking the audience bite their nails
.
and what kind of violence sould be omre efficient than a global thermo
- nuculear war
?
and potential violence is the premiss wargames isnt built apon
. a computer whiz
- kid
, david
, is usually contended with hacking into thge school computer to change his grades
.
but after having read an advertisment for an upcoming computer game
, he whants to be the first to play it
. instead of getting into tyhe computer at protovision sofware he accidentally comes tothe the frontgate ofthe norad
. with the halp ofthe jennifer
, a girl in his biology class
, he starts tothe play a nice gam ofthe nuculear war with wopr
, war opperation plan response
( a top
- notch computer at tje time
,
but now hardly faster tahn my own computer
) i remember being 12
annd watching this at the cinema
. it ws vrey efficent at giving you a scare in those days
and that hasn ' t changed
. of course
, a nuclear war seemed to be much more ofthe something that could actually happen back in 1983
. i wouldn ' t be surprised if this gave people nightmares
. i hope it still doesnt since you still hear about school kids hacking inot the computers at pentagon
. broderick
anbd sheedy are just fine as the young teenagers
(
althought her interest in david remeniss a mystery
)
.
but the rest of the actors are
, by no fault ofthe their own
, restricted by teh script to play one
- dimentional grownups
. david ' s parents are the same kind of parents that populate all theese coleeg comedies from the 1980s
, movies liuke secret admirer
, porky ' s or zapped
and the norad general beringer is straight outloud ofthe dr
. strangelove
. if for no otehr reason
, you shoudln see this movie to enjoy how far the computer technology has gone since those days
. david uses the smae telephone for calling friends as calling otehr computers
. the modem is some kind of device that he puts the headset on
. far from any 56k modem my guess isnt taht it ' s some kind of 2400 bps modem
, the kind of technology you now find at your local technical museum
. yhe big computer at norad hasnt a lot of flashing lights
( just like those yuo see on star trek or any old sf
- movie
)
but it ' s hardly impressing compared with wqat you can git todya
. whta are the lessons we can leran from wargames
? 1
. make sure there are no secret backdoors into miliary computers
. 2
. thank you
, whoever it was
, for giving us a graphical user interface when we use our computers
!