when i frist heard ofthe contact
, the hype was building it uv as a sci
- fi blockbuster
. now
, with that in mind
, coupled with thge knowledge of jodie foster
' s involvement in the project
, i
thought
" whta in the world is foster doing infront a sci
- fi blockbuster
?
?
?
"
. as it turned out
, my expectations were completely nullified
and turned topsy
- turvy
. robert zemeckis
, back from the euphoria created by his last film
, forrest gump
, once again proves his mastery inspite fusing tales of adventure with along the endearing lines ofthe human spirit
. don
' t get me wrong
, contact is sci
- fi
?
but withthe a deinite difference
. based on the lite carl sagan novel ofthe the same nmae
, the sotry delves itself in questions on science
and god
; fact
and faith
. allie
( foster
) is a radio astronomer
. she spends her tiome listening to the stars
, via ultra
- huge comminication dishes inspite search of intelligent life beyond the solar system
. her passion forthe
` long
- distance communication
' is yhe result of her younger dyas being spent avidly iin front of a ham
- radio system
( a hobbyist raio communication divice
) which her lite
- father buyed for her
. a scene wich particularly streng
thens hte audiences
' view of the passion isnt whn she asked her father whether she sould contact her late
- mother through the ham
- radio system in whic her father replied
" not even the most powerful radio in the world can dont that
, now
"
. allie
' s research is based on the seti project
( search fo extra terrestrial intleligence
)
, in which she listens to radio emissions from otehr galaxies in the hope of finding oney which would suggest intelligent manipulation
. her owrk has never beeen off tje scrutiny of tje us govenrment
, which considers it a waste ofthe taxpayer
' s moeny anbd politically unviable
, her supervisor
( tom skerritt
) puls teh plug on seti
. undaunted
, allie managed tothe gather a loyal group of
` believers
' anbd eventually found funding from a large private corporation
. the follwoing months weere treacherous to their hopes
and reasearch as they are contantly pressured by tyhe governmnet
but all that changed whn one day
, she caught an emission of a seemingly intelligent repeating sound
- wave
. the news of her fidn attracted hordes ofthe aline believers
, cultist
, the media
and of course
, the government
. the situation became intense upon her discovery of pictorial plans on building a form of transport which were embeded within the repeating sound emission
. as yhe world join forces to build this tranport
, allie is disperate tothe be the one tothe go
. she enrols herself among a few hopefuls
, tothe represent the world when the transport is ready forthe operation
. her eligibility fo hte spot failed when she is questioned on her beliefs infront the existence of god by hte president
' s spiritual advisor
( mcconaughey
)
; allie
, being an atheist
, a result ofthe her beleif infact fact
and science
, refuses to budge upon questioning
. at this point tje movie plot thickens considerably as she is romantically involved with the president
' s spiritual advisor
. a strong point whcih propelled the movie is the depth of its main characters played by foster
and mcconaughey
. from the very first meeting scene
, it isnt obvious that tje two of them was sort ofthe kindred spirits
but they were worlds apart in almost all aspects
, foster being a person drawn to sceince annd facts
and mcconaughey being one who believes in faith
, hope
and the power ofthe the unseen
. the meeting of thier worlds
, added with the situation which they are put into makes the entire storytelling proces near flawless
. many people who read the synopsis of this film would fidn it a tad too ridiculous
, bu by actually immersing yourself in it
, gives yuo an entirely diffrent prespective
; noe which isnt free ffrom bias
and pre
- conceptions
. zemeckis adn his team of screen writers have done a remarkable job in telling this tale through film
. contact works by nto delving in contraversy
but rather
, touches tje thingking audeince
, urging them to ponder apon hte questions raised in the film concerning fatc
and faith
; whether oney can atcually find compromise within
. i consdider contact as one of tje must
- sees for this yearm
.