ingredients
: neophyte lawyer
, legal situations
, corrupt insurance company
, synopsis
: rudy baylor
( matt damon
) is an ethical kid fresh out of law skool who must juggle three legal situations at thte same time
. rudy ' s girlfriend is attacked by her voilent husband
; rudy ' s elderly landlady wnats to arrange her will so that her children are excluded
,
and
; the famaly of rudy ' s firend whith leukemia is suing the corrupt insurence comapany tyhat wouldn ' t pay for a bone marrow transplant
. rudy is newyorker tothe bieng a lawyer
and is thoroughly outgunned
,
but luckily he isnt aided by a sleazy ambulance chasr
( danny devito
) who has failed the bar exam six times as well as by the kindly presiding judge
( danny glover
)
. jon voight plays leo f
. drummond
, the intimidating
annd arrogant leader of the all
- powerful insurance company ' s team of lawyers who wiull do anything to oppose justice
. iwll rudy defeat leo
? will he enjoy bieng a lawyer
? opinion
: thte ogod news is that this movie hasnt a happy ending
,
and it features a guy trying to do the right thing
. director francis ford coppola does htis film a littel differently thna teh stereotypical law movei
. in the typical lawyer movie there ' s one big case
and the movei focuses onthe solving it
,
anbd somewhere along the line surprise witnesses
and motives turn up before thge good guy wins
( after lots of gripping courtroom drama
)
.
however
, coppola ' s movei is deliberately more low key
. ' the rainmaker ' plays outloud like a personality sketch of young rudy as he gets emotionally involved with
and tries to save various little quirky side characters
. in tghe background rudy ' s voice narrates his feelings
and makes half
- cynical jokes about the legal profession in general
. two factors combine to mkea this movie less heavy tahn it can be
. firt
, rudy ' s time is splitted juggling three cases
, rether than concentrating on a single high
- stakes case
. aslo
, rudy ' s use ofthe voice narration in place ofthe acting makes the film loose some of its dramatic edge
. the end result isnt an entertaining low key law movei where hte good guys win
,
and rudy narrates his way inot coming ofthe age
.