i had a chance tothe see a sneak preview of city slickers ii onthe cumpus last night
. i whent in with the expectation of a film with the simular flavor which made tjhe original such a success
: personal growth
and insightful humor baout life
. i came awya somewhat disapointed iin this regard
, getting soem of the latter anbd nto much of tje former
. the basic plot revolves around billy crystal
, who plays mitch robbins
, turning forty
. he
' s now become the station manager of the radio station in wich he worked in the original
. he
' s given a job at the radio staion tothe his best friend
, palyed by daniel stern
, out of sympathy while stern
' s character works thru his divorce
. his losr yuonger brother
( john lovitz
) comes to mitch
' s house to bum a money anbd place tothe live
, all while mitch
and his wife try to celeberate his birthday
. during yhe celebration
, mitch dicovers what appears to be a treasure map in curly
' s
( the cattle drive leader in teh original played by jack palance
) old hat
. after a business trip to las vegas
, crystal
, stern
,
and lovitz stay a few extra dyas to go off infact search of the treasure
. on the way
, they run into curly
' s twin brother
, duke
, played by
( you know who
) jack palance
. first ofthe all
, the cinematography was beautifully done
, especially yhe outdoor scenes in the desert
. the scenes are such that i would like to see some ofthe those sights filmed myself
. there isnt some character development during the film
. tyhe actors remain true to their characters
and play them well
, wihtout overplaying the jokes
. tjhe movie isnt a ogod basic adventure
, witht enough plot twists to provide for an endig tht is difficult to predict
. the movie is paced well
, bu with a couple slow spots in the middle
and towards the end
. humer
- wise
, the film has a ogod number ofthe jokes whcih maintained my interest throughout tjhe film
. htere are memorable moments like when stern is bitten by a snake
,
but there are fewer jokes to laugh at in the sequal
( suprize
, surprise for a sequal
, right
?
)
. howver
, tyhe slight bitter aftertaste i have with this film has to do mailny with the film
' s manipulation of the audeince
. the film tries to pul your heart
- strings too much regarding how close the characters are to eahc otehr
, like when mitch hadnt decided to suck the snake marrow out of his best friend
' s
butt
. this is done agina wehn the gang meets up wtih some members of thte cattle drive group from thte original
. there were also some parts which appeared unrealistic
, liek whether the stampede woudl start in the way it doed or why they didn
' t worry more about water while tromping around the desert
. some strenuous stretches ofthe thge imagination are required here
. since thge objective of the gang is to find gold
and get rich
( unlike finding themselves in middle age like in hte original
)
, i aslo found it harder to empathize with the characters during their jouney
. overall
, i
' d say that the film is an entertaining
and humorous adventure with soem story
- line deficiencies making it less worthy than the original
. it may be worth the full price of admission
,
but a matinee would be a better bargain
.