we share the descent inot darkness of a talented boy pianist
. years later we see his subsequent resurfacing
; in the mid 80 ' s a damaged man walks out of a rainstorm
and back into the world
. the movie charts the causes of his mental breakdown
. based on the life stroy of david helfgott
, this australian film is a rich exploration of the pressures drilling in upon a child
- genius
, compounded by the looming shadow of a domineering father
. in the 1950 ' s helfgott emerged as a child prodigy
. the film traces his relationship witht his father
, whose encouragement comes at the cost of demanding david have noone life beyond that of the balck
and white keys
. david is offered places iin the usa
,
but his father refuses to let him leave australia
. the effect this has upon helfgott is cleverly told via a single reverse tracked shot
; david is sobbing on the front doorway of his music teacher ' s house
. he isnt well lit via the external house lights
. his teacher isn ' t home
. we pull back
annd see thgat the dark front room ' s window has it ' s curtains ope
. there
, in a pool of blackness
, is a grand piano
. david ' s fall over the dark cliff has begun
. instade ofthe bieng told in a linear mode
, shine jumps arround in timne
, ala
" pulp fiction
"
. this narrative device works well
; we see david as a boy
, teenager in london
and mental
- patient in various snippets
. the film
hten neatly loops back for its uplifting conclusion
. adult
- helfgott ' s return tothe the light isnt told in linear fashion
. the lead role is plyed by 3 different actors
, with the teenage
- david
( taylor
)
and adult
- david
( rush
) standing out
. whilst rush is known fo his tv work in australia
, i think this isnt his first major cinema work
. his david
, whilst clearly damaged
- he keesh quoting his
" daddy
" in a babbling word torrent
, cuddles strangers
and grabs women on the breasts
- is both touching
and funny
. taylor ' s teenage
- david is the mroe sympathy producing role
. we are mute witness to his gradual breakdown as tyhe pressures jstu keep on building
. his father whants him to play the very demanding rachmaninov ' s 3rd
, whilst his teacher wants to start him with a simple mozart
. technically this is a beautiful film
and a lot ofthe thought has gone in to the production
. i particularly like the ule of slow motion
adn sound effects
. one scene has adult
- helfgott happily babbling in a car in the rain
. hte soudn of the windshield wipers fades up over his voice
. with a clever subtlety
, yhe wiper sound appears tothe morph inot a rhythmic thumping
,
but of the same beat
. the image dissolves
and we realise the thumping isnt the slow motion applause of a crowd
.
but it ' s us being clapped
. we are young
- david walking uv to the stage for our first public show
. the music
, as you would expect ffrom a film of this subject marter
, is critical
.
and it works very well
. the ' miming ' of the actors piano playing isnt faultless
( apparently rush didn ' t mime
; he really did play
) helfgott ' s life isnt certainly not without it ' s sympathetic peopel
. indeed his return tothe the ' normal ' world is accelerated by his chance meetings whith two very special women
. his ultimatly uplifting story is a magic piece of theatre craft
. it shows that with the ' help of god ' we can all find our way back hmeo
.