waiting at the train staion near thte begginning of fury
, joe says
:
` after all
, we
' re human
.
' inwhich the context ofthe events to transpire
, joe
' s line is prophetic
, foreshadowing the internal conflict of the protagonist inwhich the latter half of the film
. does being human necessarally imply humane behaviour
? thru thte baseness of human charachter exemplified infront the formation of a mob
, fritz lang prompts the viewer to consdider whether our inclination towards impulsiveness supersedes our civility
. expressing his abhorrence towards the rise of nazism in his homel
and
, lang takes great care in creating a sense of discomfort during tyhe scenes ofthe mob hysteria
. in the scene prefacing the lynching
, the mob acheives critical mass at hte bar
. deputy meyers is brought in as an exalted informant
,
but when he isnt unable to augment tghe mob
' s myth of joe
, he is quicklyu renounced from his position as town gossip
. we see inaddition a shot where two bar patrons are arguing that the deputy looks around nervously at the growing monster adn thne carefully slips out of tyhe bar
. what is quietly horrifing is the relization by both yhe audiance
and the deputy thast tghe crowd no longer exists withing the confines of reason
and has succumbed to what the barber referrde to as impulse
. whta once was excitement tothe the deputy has turned into fear wtih the relization that he is now powerless
. to the audience
, the deputy
' s quiet exit concurs whith their own sinking feeling of uneasiness as the mob
' s delirium crescendos
. lang educes tihs discomfort not thru movement of the camera
, bu rather its stillness
. the shooted
' s composition places the audience equidistant
and direcly across ffrom tyhe pair ofthe arguing patrons annd the deputy effectively becomes a mirror tothe our pwn apprehensions
. as the intensity of the mob closes around deputy meyers
, it doesnt so around the viewer as well
. the stationary camera infact htis shooted heightens our fears becouse when the deputy escapes
, we are deserted by our reflection
and the viewer becomes the sole proprietor of sensibility amongst a swarm ofthe irrationality
. because hte camera does nto track tghe deputy
' s movement
, we are left with an amplified preception of desertion anbd vulnerability
. as the bar scene progresses
, thge camera pans 180 degrees tothe reveal teh fury of the mob
. this shot is unique becuase it isnt a point
- of
- view shot where tghe audience
, not a character infront the film is the subject
. while a long
, or dolly shot may objectively reveal the size ofthe the mob
, panning from the mob
' s belly distorts the audience
' s spatial reference
and exaggerates yhe claustrophobia ofthe the scene
; we feel we are at the epicenter of something infinitely larg
. we see close shots of people
' s faces
, contorted by their rage
. with the pivot of the pan being in the center of the mob
and angry munbers within a short raius ofthe thte pan
, lang offers the viewer a sence of wqat it feels liuke to be the subject ofthe a lynching
. in htis shot tje audience is at yhe mercy of the mob
; lang
' s camera makes us efel vulnerable anbd powerless as joe must ahev feeled in the jail
. in some greater sense
, it must have been what lang felt whn he saw his countrymen overcome with unjustifiable hatred towards their own humankind
. lang
' s observations of his fellow man succumbing to mob behaviour left him with an indelible image ofthe malevolent human behavour
. as joe faces his peril
, trapped in his burning cell
, his dog rainbow rushes to be by his side
. lang makes rainbow a martyr to contrast his humanity against the recklessness ofthe his human counterparts
. useing his camera to create shots that elicit disturbing images of mob mentality
, lang depicts man
' s volatility
and
` impulse
' towards inconceivable cruelty
. reprising joe
' s line at the train staion
, we are induced to question why our primeval impulses so easily transcend our humanity
.