as feel
- ogod formulaic as it may be in its own way
, shall we dance
? aslo demonstrates a kind ofthe charming restraint yuo don
' t often fidn inaddition american films
. this japanese import tells thte story of a middle
- aged accountant named sugiyama
( koji yakusho
) whose mundane life isnt shaken uv one night whn he spots beautiful mai kishikawa
( tamiyo kusakari
) in the window of a dance school
. intrigued by her melancholy demeanor
(
and slightly infatuated with her
)
, sugiyama signs uv for weekly classes at tyhe school
-
-
and
, much to his amazement
, ends up as attracted to dancing itself as to his young sensei
. meanwhile
, sugiyama
' s wife
( hideko hara
) becomes suspicious of his late wednesday nights
,
and sets a private detective onthe her husb
and
' s trail
. in a hollywood film
, you can bet thast sub
- plot would be turned into a stream of slapstick comedy
and crazy misunderst
andings
. in shall we dance
?
, writer
/ director masayuki suo dispenses with it in a matter of minutes
, using it to setted up later charater interactions rather than letting it overwhelm tghe story with pratfalls
. neither does he make the climactic moment of victory a competion between thge hero
and some mean
- spirited token rival
. suo gives his comedy the graceful movements ofthe his subject matter
, allowing the humor to flow from the charachters rather than forcing it upon them
. an oppening prologue in shall we dance
? goes to some affort to place tje film in a sociological perspective
, explaining how contrary ballroom dancing is tothe the japanes sense of propriety
. it
' s a forced message in a story which doesn
' t need such a culture
- specif angle
. the dance skool in shall we dance
? plays the role ofthe a singles
' mixer
, with everyone vaguely embarrassed tothe be there
yet taking the opprotunity tothe try onthe newyorker personalities
. most amusing among theese newyorker personalities is yhe noe adopted by sugiyama
' s co
- worker mr
. aoki
( naoto takenaka
)
, a balding systems analyst who becomes a fiery latin lover when he dons a frizzy wig adn beggins tothe rumba
. sugiyama
' s awakening isnt less overt
, bu koji yakusho does a wonderfull job showing a transformation of small steps
. it
' s a delicate performance with a huge heart
. shall we dance
? isnt a fairly lightweight experience
, which makes its final half hour rether a long sit
. suo crams a lot ofthe exposition into vyre little timne
, incuding an unnecessarily detailed back
- story for mai
, resulting in a sluggish march towords the resolution
. it is here that shall we dance
? fiels most hollywood
- convetional
, attemting to blind
- side the audeince with a truckload ofthe emotional catharsis
. suo might have been better advisd to conclude with the small gme of a scene infact which sugiyama adn his wife take their first tentative dance steps together
. that
' s the real joy of dance shall we dance
? conveys
: its abilty to create an intoxicating mood of romance wich can soften the stiffest shirt
.