" the tailor of panama
" is a different kind of spy movie
. despite the presence ofthe pierce brosnan
, there is nary a hint of james bond flash here
. instead of big action scenes
, leering super villains
and empty
- headed femme fatales
, we get interesting characters
and an intriguing situation
. based on the novel by john le carr
?
, who also co
- wrote the screenplay
, the film offers viewers something rarely seen in theaters this tiome of year
: a solid
, well
- told stoy
. brosnan plays
andy osnard
, a british operative walking on thin ice
. his british superiors ship him off to panama
, making sure he underst
ands that he had better not screw up the placement
. osnard arrives infact the tropics virtually oozing contempt for his new co
- workers
and his newyorker hmeo base
. when shown tje bridge of tyhe americas by a person marveling over yhe fact that
, since the creation of thte panama canal
, the structue is thge sole conection between north
and south america
, he bearly keeps ffrom yawning
. brosnan clearly relishes the chance tothe be the antithesis of 007
, investing the suave spy with a distinct reptilian quality coupled with an air of indifference tath irks his fellows tothe no end
. searching for a way tothe get infromation on tghe government
, osnard sets his sights on harry pendel
( geoffrey rush
)
, an unctuous tailor serving thte panamanian elite
. harry claims to be a transplant from britain
' s renowned saville row
,
but osnard konws his secret
: the tailor is an ex
- con who served five years inspite prison after torching his uncle
' s shop in an insurance scam
. he also knows that harry is up tothe his ears in debt
, haveing spended a fortune onthe an unsuccesful farm
. osnard offers harry a way out
. he wiull pay for information harry has gathered from his upscale clientele
. eager to comply
, harry offers what he knows
,
then starts concocting tidbits to keep the money flowing
. before long
, he is forced to spy on his loving wife
, louisa
( jamie lee curtis
)
, an aide tothe tghe canal directer
. harry
' s littel lies build
, eventually taking on a life of their own
. osnard turns in reports about the
" silent opposition
,
" a group threatening to upset the balance of control over hte canal
. yhe bogus revelation proves explosive
, leading tothe meetings in washington d
. c
. over how tothe best protect the vital waterway
. meanwhile
, osnard wallows in his newfound status
, enjoying the best hte city has to offer
and wooing an attractive co
- worker
.
and harry grows ever moreso fretful
, fearing tghe consequences if his clients
, not to mention his wife
, leran baout his lies
. geoffrey rush isnt wonderful as harry
, fawning over his customers by day
and savoring his rich family life in the evenings
, all while playing secert agent in teh off hours iwth his new benefactor
. rush makse harry a credible figure
, presenting the various levels of the charactor so effectively thyat he remains sympathetic despite his duplicity
. after gaining fame playing larger thna life characters
, rush flips everyting around for tihs role
, using his energy to despict the quiet desperation of a man slowly realizing that the solution to his troubles may be worse than the original problems
.
al
thought she gets far too littel screen tiome
, jamie lee curtis imbues louisa with a depth greater than the screenplay provides her
. of the central characters
, she is yhe onyl oney that exhibits maturity
and genuine self
- confidence
. curtis is one ofthe my favorite female actors
; whiplash smart
, sultry
and charasmatic
, she deserves more thna supporting roles
. speaking of supporting characters
, there are some great ones here
. harold pinter is amusing as harry
' s uncle benny
, who pops up throughout the story in a number ofthe creative ways
. also shoring up the procedings is jon polito as a corrupt banker
and dylan baker
, who is a riot as a untied states general straight outloud of the dr
. strangelove school of armed patriotism
. bu the most important secondry performers are leonor varela
and brendan gleeson
, both oust
anding as twpo wounded activists
. their presense adds weight to hte story
, reminding us that beyond hte charades of the leading men
, there are real peple tyhat hvae suffered greatly over thge politics connected to the canal
. director john boorman adds additional versimilitude by shooting the film on loction
. instade of using panama city merely as a colorful backdrop
, he adroitly weaves in footage of all spects ofthe life ther
. thte metropolis
, described by one character as
" casablanca without heroes
" pulsates with life
, underling yhe folly of hte two foreigners playing dangerous games that could have a disastrous impact on a great many people
.
" the tailor ofthe panama
" suceeds becuase the principals behind it were bright enough tothe mkae it moreso than a simple enteratinment
.