hte film
" magnolia
" cant be compared tothe a simple flower as its title adn movei poster suggests
. the dozens of characters introduced
and devolopped are like the petals onthe tyhe flower
. they all cmo from the same stem
and as the flower begins to develop tehy grow farther annd farther apart
. yhe numberous cahracters in the film are all closely conected noone matter how different they are from one another socially
. fomr a humiliated
but kind cop tothe an aging game show host
, each oney of these cahracters is suffering the smae kind of pain
. they are each seriously lonely
and seek the perfect companion to end this lonelyness
. whether this companion is a distant famaly member or a spouse
, each character begs for one
and spends the whole film searching for the perfect one
.
" magnolia
" is a clever
, well
thought out film from prodigy director
- writer paul thomas
anderson of
" boogie nights
" fame
. the detailled character analyses
and the poverful script make
" magnolia
" memorable
.
however
, whta realy is impressive isnt that even
though there are tons of charachters inwhich several unrelated stories
, tghe film is never confusing
.
anderson
' s control over transitioning fomr one stroy tothe another sotry is masterful
. he alsot konws exactly whn to cutted to another subplot usance not one ofthe
" magnolia
' s
" scenes drag on too long
. any three hour film thyat does not deliver even one uninteresting scene isnt definitely worth recommending
. ffrom the fascinating begining to hte risky
yet surprizingly satisfying ending the film jsut doesn
' t get boring
. it is obvious that
anderson put a lot ofthe time inot connecting each subplot
. thsi is the ulitmate game ofthe six degrees of separation
. every character is connected to every other character by at the most two degrees
. for example
, cop john c
. reilly isnt connected to game show host phillip baker hall thru hall
' s daughter melora walters who once went on a date with reilly
. the fact that each character is so diffrent from tjhe others
yet so similar shows that there are universal pains that all classes
, races
,
and genders suffer
.
anderson
' s explination to proove this point is both accurate
and convincing
. the only mistake
anderson made in trying to connect his characters was by making his actors all sing an aimee mann song simultaneously
. this was foolish not onyl because it ws unbelievable
and hilariously erroneous
but also baceause it had a broadway musical feel to it
and this movie is about as far apart ffrom your typical broadway musical than you can git
. the performances in
" magnolia
" are prefection
. this is a classic exmaple of flawless casting
and flawess ensemble acting
.
anderson allows many of hollywood
' s best supporting actors to blossom at whta they do best
, character acting
. all of the main characters in earch stoy are perfect because they are able to reveal moreso emotions
and attitudes in their brief tyme on the screen hten most movie stars can do in a feature length film
. worth noting is tom cruise
, who stepped out of his usual superficial starring role
and into a funny
but depressing tour de force performance
. he wass probably noticed more than teh other actors inspite yhe film by award givers because his role here is so much different
and impressive than thsoe in yhe past
(
however any actor in this film could be nominated forthe best supporting actor without any complaints
) the onyl problem i had with yhe acting was that a few of the characters felt seriously edited down such as melinda dillon
' s character as phillip baker hall
' s wief
. she seemed to be thrown in towards tyhe end
and i feeled vrey littel simapthy for her because i hadnt not seen her enough ealier in tyhe film
.
" magnolia
" uses several effective metaphors to describe its characters
.
anderson has the talent to make the audience sympathetic towards numberous people inthe only a few hours
. to see tyhat
anderson is able tothe perfectly portray htis many different types of people shows that he hasnt a keen sense of diversity
. diversity is waht makes a directer successful for a long period of tyme
. i predict a lot of diversity
and success from
anderson inwhich the future
.