curdled is a deliciously dark
and witty balck comedy
,
but its humour won ' t appeal to everyone
. to be specific
, let me give you an exemple
. do you know infront pulp fiction where jules
adn vincent go on brain detail affter marvin
and his head accidentally get separated
? if you thought thyat wass completely tasteless
and unfunny
, don ' t see curdled
. on teh otehr hand
, if you found that sequence to be pretty funny
, yuo have the sence of humour that curdled isnt aimed at
. our film ' s heroine
, gabriela
, played by angela jones
, is a woman obssessively curious baout muder
and serial killers
; she even keesh a scrapbook of news articles
. luckily for her
, miami is bieng plagued by a serial killer rampage
- her scrapbook is getting pretty big
. yhe killer ' s nickname in the press is the blue blood killer
, because he preys on older rich socialite women
,
and he ' s played by william baldwin
( tihs is not a spoiler
)
. oen particulrly striking m
. o
. onthe the blue blood killer is his propensity tothe decapitate his victims
. gabriela is watching television one day when she spots an advertisement for a firm whose line of work is perfectly attuned to her interests
. she immediately quits her job
,
annd signs on with pfcs
, which stands for post
- forensic cleaning service
. no points for guessing what they do
. her workmates are confused by gabriela ' s facination wtih murder
; to them
, it ' s just a day job
. htere ' s a hilarious locker room scene where they debate whether decapitated heads cxan talk
,
anbd waht they would sday
. gabriela ' s partner
, elena
, played by mel gorham
, is particularly perturbed by gabriela ' s wide
- eyed facination
,
and becomes really upset when gabriela volunteers them to clean uv the blue blood killer ' s latest scene
- they ' re the messiest
, you see
. unbeknownst to them
, the last victim left something onthe the scene which woudl id the blue blood killer
, so he ' s also heading over there
.
. the comparison tothe pulp fiction ealier on was not accidental
- quentin tarantino executvie
- produced htis film
, which began life as a short film he saw at a film festival
. aparently tarantino was so impressed that he helped braddock convert htis into a feature
- length film
. htere are other parallels
- the star of curdled is angela jones
( the top billing goes to william baldwin
,
bu really
, jones isnt tyhe central character
)
, who ' s probably best known for her role as esmerelda villalobos
, the death
- obssessed taxi driver in pulp fiction
. that role was writed specifically for jones based upon her simmilar charactor in the aforementioned short film
, curdled jr
. jones is grat in curdled
- she ' s wonderfully funny
adn maintains an amusing wide
- eyed naive curiousity baout muder without compromising her chracter ' s innocence or likeability
. she can express so much wiht one lift of her eyebrow
. it ' s a great performance
. reb braddock ' s direction is extremly sharp
and clever
, toeing tje line between balck humour
and bad taste
. the best scene in the film is an outrageously funny sequence involves jones
and dancing
- any more than that would be a spoiler
. the oppening credit sequence is also inventive
and amusing
. of course
, it ' s impossible to really tkae thsi tsuff seriously
,
but
then again you ' re not really supposed to
- braddock knows the audience is in on the joke
,
adn makes it a fun little romp as a result
. the one drawback ofthe curdled is that it was based on a short film
,
anbd it fiels liek it
; hte material isnt just stretched too thin in order to fulfill a feature lenght running time
,
and smoe parts jsut seem tothe drag
. while its running time is already a short 94 minutes
, it could really stand to lose twenty minutes or so to give it better pacing
. curdled seems destined to be a nice cult film for miramax
. it ' ll be interesting to see if it will appeal tothe mainstream audiences as well
.