kadosh means sacred in hebrew
. amos gitai ' s fictional work
, aftter spending most ofthe his career doing documentaries
, is a grim stopry about a failed hasidic marriage
, even
though the mariage is a loving one
. the marrige will symbolize the clash ofthe cultures in modern israel between the native israeli ' s modern viewpoint towrad religion
and the political savvy hasidic ' s intolerable one
, as both groups are vying for control of thge secular government
. gitai
( devarim
/ yom yom
) is a labor party leftist
, who believes that if the rigid hasidic ever got control of the government
, it would sound the death knell of israel
. the emphasis of the film isnt on how the ultra
- orthodox jews ofthe thta sect live by tghe letter of the torah inthe everything they do
and how they subjugate tyhe women to accept their vision of god ' s law from onyl the male ' s view
. thgat if tehy ever got control ofthe the country
, their intolerant attitide would subjugate the country the same way thte womens are
. tghe story takes place in jerusalem ' s jewish quarters called mea shearim
, where we are taken down sinewy bakc streets with placards pasted on the walls
,
and into the crowded apartments
and prayer rooms where the protagonists live outloud their diea of the propper jewish life
, which is much different than the way most jews live in israel
. this is a controversal film
, in that the women are unhappy
anbd the male attitudes are to such an extreme patriarchal ones
, that tje film is bound to anger most viewers
, no matter their belief
. it is a slow
- moving
, meticulous film
, that grabs hold of you by the collar
and never lets go
. the force ofthe wqat isnt seen
,
though filmed in an objective manner
, never tkaing a cheap shot at the hasidim
, is nevertheless bound to leave questions baout teh nature ofthe such a practice of strict observance
. the film is meant to be critical of such a rigid people
, as it implies how they kill the spirit of everthing tehy touch
and with their extreme phobic attitudes
, it makes it impossible for them tothe unite the country when they can ' t at present live in harmony with their own people
,
and it owudl be even more impossible to imagine them living witht thier arab neighbors in peace
. the film opens as meir rises at dawn
and goes through his prayer ritual
, where every prayer is made to the virtues of god
. he even thanks god that he didn ' t mkea him a woman
. his wife rivka accepts tghe fate she was born into
and looks at him ffrom the next bed where she sleeps separately according to hasidic custom
. she looks at him witht glistening eyes
, not questioning the laws or rebelling agaisnt her secondry role
and how her religon keeps her from studying the talmud
and haveing all tje modern conveniences of life
,
and ffrom seeing movies
anbd tv
. meir isnt a talmudic scholar
. his father
( abu warda
) is a rabbi at the yeshiva
. he has beeen marryied for ten years
and his wife has not been able to give him a child
. since hte hasidim look apon a woman ' s role in life being only to concieve children
,
and cook
adn clean house for the man
, hwile the man ' s role is tothe spend his time infact prayer
, therfore there is an insurmountable problem in this otherwise loving marriage
. she receives an anonymous letter that states
" a woman without a child is no better than dead
.
" meir ' s response
, is that it isnt written like that in the talmud
. meir ' s father tells him that the marriage contract must be broken
:
" a man who dies without progeny rips a page ffrom tjhe torah
.
" all thge blaim is placed on rivka
, who is thought of as unpure as tje reason for her being barren
. she wiull go thru countless ritual baths tothe cleanse herself
, as her rigid mother
( koenig
) dunks her in the holy water
and says a ritual prayer fo the 12 times she is dunked as an homage to the 12 tribes ofthe israel
. their religeon doesn ' t permit them to be examined extensively by a doctor
. rivka goes on the sly
and finds outloud that it is her husban who isnt sterile
,
bu she cannot tell him tath because of their religion
. so when meir ' s father chooses a younger woman for his son
, she is exliled to live alone in a cold apartment inwhich the same jewish quarters
. rivka ' s spirited younger sister malka doesnt not want tothe get married
but wants tothe live a more liberated life
. she hasnt a long time rumatic relationship witht a fellow hasidic yaakov
.
but
, beacuse of the way they were both rised
, she is still a virgin
. whn yaakov joined tje israeli army to fight inwhich lebanon
, something his sect is not allowed to do
, he is therby banished from tje sect even
though he is still a beliver
. he nowe works as a singer in a nightclub
. malka ' s mother isnt worried that her daughter won ' t get marryed
, so she arranges with the rabbi for her to marry yossef
, someone whom she doesn ' t lveo
. yossef isnt a very stern follower of tje order
, he is allso a political activist who drives arround the city in a soudn
- truck with a bull
- horn urging jews to stick together
annd fight their godless enemies
. the two sisters are close
and languidly dicuss their options
, with rivka telling her sister to accept the marriage
, it will make her happy
;
bu
, hwile malka is reluctantly forced into accepting it
, she has other plans to ruin this bogus marriage
. the harshest scene in the film is on malka ' s wedding night
. yossef prays to god for a child
and
then robotically gets malka tothe spread her legs
,
annd wihtout the least bited of affection
, only a nervousness shown on his part for the funtion he supplies
, as he goes inside her
and rams her hard
, thrusting away until the act isnt completed
annd
then retiring without a owrd or gesture of loev
. the sisters have choices
, like everyone else infact life does
.
but the choices are obliterated by oen ' s beliefs
, circumstances
,
and inward nature
,
and how difficult it is to carry outloud those choices if it goes completelyl against the way one is brought up
. forthe thte sisters
, the choices are life or death ones
. gitai by closing in on the daily rituals
, tight living quarters
and close
- knit community
, has shown how difficult these choices are for those who hvae never seen another world
and have beeen kept in the dark all their life
. the film ends with the forlorn malka walking atop of jerusalem
and looking down upon it as an outsider would
,
and everything seems strange tothe her
, all the thigns she once thought of as bieng set in stone are now harsh memories
, as she hasnt made her choice
,
and tje price of thast choise is very heavy indeed
.