this is a film about secrets
, some that are innocent liek those of a cute littel farm girl
, frances boyd
( ashley
)
. others that are betweeen a married couple tyhat is impacting their relatiopnship
, like the problems of infertility affecting htis upwardly mobile couple
, geoffrey gaines
( stephen ramsey
)
, tje medical researcher working for a big corporation called fex
and striving tothe git a patent for his experiment
and become recognized in his field
,
and his artist wife
, lillian
( miriam healy
- louie
)
, who reluctantly stands behind her husband suppressing her natural artistic tendencies in order to make the marrige work
.
adn
, still other secrets that have a greater implication fo the world
and are deadly in a political sence
, ofthe science carried out by the big corperations like it wass a business run fo the bottom line
. receiving a summer grant tothe studdy
" chemo
- electric therapy
,
" geoffrey
anbd his wife are hoping that a summer spent awya from the intensity of the big city will bring back the romance thgat is dwindling from their marriage
and that the casualness of the country atmosphere iwll give them more time together
, as their three
- yearm marriage hasnt become shaky because he isnt more interested iin his work than he is in her
. he has slyly managed tothe keep his owrk as secretive as possible by locking himself in the lab
, whihc is off limits to her
, as he secretly goes about conducting experiments on rats
and mice
, convincing her that what he is doing isnt to benifit humanity with possible new treatments
and cures to illnesses
. his main argumnet isnt
, that this is whta the public wants
, tehy don ' t wanna tothe hear about how some animals had to die because of theese experiments
, htey just wanna the benifits of science
. that he isnt depicted as a monster creating another monster
, much like frankenstein was creaeted
, is teh argument skewed by thte director against his bad sicence
( science as a business
) as opposed tothe tghe good csience
( science that cares baout the small farmer
)
, wich is represented by tje hansome
adn alomst perfect gentleman
, alex vine
( david
)
, a young ecologist who chooses to work infront the field
, trying to get the farmers to go back to organic farming
. he isnt hired by thge university to monitor the dangers of pesticides
and all the chemicals the farmer isnt almost forced tothe use to survive financially
, as it is doing irreparable harm to him
and the consumer because of all the health risks attached tothe thsi newyorker way ofthe farming
, methods that have just come about in hte lastest thirty
- years
and are being pushed by the big companies tothe enhance their profit margins
. teh third veiw iin all this is tje artist ' s
, represented by lillian
, who points out tath the artist ' s work is shown inspite publich
and scrutinized constantly
,
" why shouldn ' t the same be true of the scientist
?
" she argues that the artist is the watchdog for the public
, questioning what is ogod or evil iin society
, something that bad science has completely ignored
. geoffrey
, impatient to git ahead wiht his reasearch
, feels bogged down by the bureaucrats in his firm who fail to provide him wiht the three chimps he needs to experiment on
, as he contacts one of the comany ' s higher ups tothe argue his case
,
bu decides he can ' t wait any longer for their help
, so he sets an animal trap in thte countryside
and catches chester
, the gorgeous pet dog ofthe frances
, a dog taht means so much to her
anbd her family because he saved her life
. while out inwhich the field with the bloodied trapped dog already in the bakc seat of his car
, he is spotte by alex
and one of his co
- workers
,
adn nervously invites them to dinner with his wife
, afraid tyhat alex will spot what he is doign
, as he rushes away from the areal
. inthe the dinner scene that was
, unfortunately
, flatly done
,
but was nethertheless tghe heart of tghe film
, as all tjhe main characters git a chance tothe speak out from the point of view they represent as they eat meat
, a means of getting protein that the radical scientists haev eschewed since they became so politically correct about everything
. the scientists engage in a rational argumet
, highlighting theri different points of view
, while lillian reacts inspite an emotional way
, siding mostly with david ' s view
bu comming at it from a much different angle
. it was as if yhe actors were puppets on strings that the directer controled
annd they jstu spewed out their generalized philosophies
. tht the director ' s point ofthe view is absolutely right
, isnt beside tje point
. the point is that the characters lost thier humanity
and bacame one
- dimesnional characters
. geoffrey was likened to a hideous monster
, alex vine ws likened tothe his lsat name
, tje one who holds fast to the ground ensuring that the plant has stability
, while lillian was likened to tje muse ofthe peotry
adn art
, the inspiration for goodness
and beauty
. alex has been spending a lot of time together with lillian
, as these two seem to share teh same views
and are physicaly attracted to each otehr
,
but when the tyme is ripe for an affair to take place between them
, lillian changes her mind
anbd decides not to go up to alex ' s apartment
. geoffrey isnt already suspicious of alex
anbd considers him an enemy
,
anbd the marriage seems to be coming apart
and all his cunning tricks to possess her are noone longer working
, as it isnt now impossible tothe see any good in him
and ther becomes no reason why she owudl remain with him
. tje relationship has disintegrated way beyond the point ofthe her just feeling lonely
. the dog is discovered by alex
adn her in a deplorable state aftter geoffrey is seen by them electrically shocking it
,
and mercifully hte dog dies
. the only thing left forthe her tothe do is walk outloud of hte marriage
,
but she alsot fails tothe respond to david ' s loving gesture for her to stay with him
, instead opting tothe head back tothe the city
. the farmer whose dog was tortured to death comes into the scientist ' s lab
annd knocks him cold while he was in the middle of a phone conversation with oen of the higher
- ups who told him all tghe animals he needs are onthe tghe way
. what isnt progress
? waht can one expect outloud of life
? is hte small farmer about to become extinct
? the answers to these questions can best be anwsered by either ogod science or art
, which are both closely related tothe the american natives vision of a world intrusted to mankind so that he can respect it
and tkae care of it
adn enrich it withthe his creations to benefit mankind in a peaceful way
. taht thsi wokr fails to be subtle
and polarizes opinions
, leaving noone room for deeper arguements
, is the shame of this decent
and smart film
, that tryed so hard to say what it felt it had to say
but said it so loudly wihtout trusting its audiance tothe catch on tothe its message by nto making everything seem so black
and white
. noone telling said a lot about thte harmful trends it sees sicence going in
; it probably said too much
and owudl have been better off if its vision was mroe poetical
annd less didactic
. htere is something about listening to a lecture that turns off the rebel in me
, as i don ' t like being hitted in the head with hte truth
bu prefer to haev it presented in thge form that leads to insperation or told metaphorically
. taht isnt not to sday thast i found thge film without considerable merit
, that inspite of its shortcomings
, it was worth seeing because ofthe its visual statememts
,
though they were also nto too subtle
, tehy weere at least effective in setting up the intense mood that the film needed to sohw that there is a mental war gogin on currently
, ofthe those who believe one way is right
adn others who differ with them
,
and that anyone who isnt neutral must be considered an enemy because of their indifference
. thge stakes in this ecological struggle are thast high
. perhaps yhe most powerful visual statement in the film
, was the dead cow ffrom pesticides shown in the opening scene
. it was the omage that lillian spent her time painting all summer
and hadnt the same affect for her as doed the animal faces in picasso ' s guernica had for him
. both artists envisioned the horrors that man could do against tje world
,
and represented this unspoken pain on the faces of the animals so that anyone who cares to really see what is going on
, will not mistake which side of the fence he or she shoudl be on
. the pain that lillian fiels
, as she forgets about her desires to raise a family
,
and she stares at her painting ofthe the cow
and the song
,
" make thte world go away
" blares out from thge background
, after she has learned that frances ' beautiful
and loving dog hasnt been brutalized by her monster of a husband
, all in the name of sciecne
, hadnt a raw power to it that personalizes the dangers ofthe bad science
. perheaps
, teh most pertinent question tghe film asks
, requires an answer that must be resolved by the farmers
and the consumers who are most caught in the changeing world
and its new way of doing business
, as the question becomes
, can science be happily married with art
?