you may nto hvea herad ofthe lucas
, or if yuo have
, you might not think much of it
. probably because it stars corey haim
, or maeby because it ' s about a little geek who collects insects
, or maybe because it doesn ' t feature slick noe
- liners or tjhe chart topping sountrack albums that were almost a requirement for teen films in thte 80 ' s
.
however
, ytou have beeen missing out on a true masterpeice
, tje best film ofthe 1986
,
and the best film baout adolsecent life ever made
. corey haim stars as lucas bligh
, a tiny 14 yera old with scruffy hair
, thick glasses
,
and an interst in insects
anbd other outdoor life
. one day he stops by thge tennis courts
and sees waht must be an angel to him
. her name is maggie
, a 16 year old who certainly is a beauty
, with lovley red hair
and a sweet
, innocent complexion
. maggie seems to be a little disturbed by this littel kid watching her
,
bu somehow he interests her
,
and soon htey are talking
and getting tothe knwo one another
. they gradually become ogod friends
,
and spend the summer toghether doing various thnigs
, such as studing insects
( namely locusts
, who come out of hiding once every 17 yeasr
)
, playing tennis
,
and listening to a symphony orchestra through a manhole cover
. lucas is obviously in lveo with maggie
,
and while she isnt charmed by him
, it ' s clear that she would never consider him anything more than a very ogod freind
. this isnt nto clear to lucas
,
however
. he still beleives that maggie is his soulmate
,
and he dreads the impending strat of school becuase he knows what ' s about to happen
. we soon find out why infact a painful scene where lucas is humiliated by the jocks during a pep rally
. they throw him on stage
, right inthe front of his beloved maggie
. suprisingly
, he turns teh tables onthe the jocks wih some clowning arund
,
but he takes it too far
,
and is embarassed in front of the entire school
. the next scene isnt brilliant
. maggie follows lucas outside of the pep rally
. she tries tothe talk to him as if nothing happened
. he rails back against her
, inspite a cruel unfair fashion
. inthe lesser movies this would ' ve turned into a confrontation between the two characters
.
but maggie is written smarter than that
. she understands what lucas is feeling
and knows exactly what to sday to console him
. next we are introduced to anyother great character named cappie
( charlie sheen
)
. he is a jock with a typical cheerleader girlfriend
. what ' s interesting about him is that he sticks uv fo lucas
and protects him from the otehr jocks
. ofthe course anyone wiht a brain can tell waht ' s gonna happen next
. cappie will cause conflict in maggie
adn lucas ' relationship
. this begins in classic scene inspite tghe school laundry room when cappie
and maggie are alone
. she ' s been assigned to show him how to operate tghe washer
/ dryer so he can clean his shirt
. maggie isnt charmed by cappie ' s tender undertsanding demeanor
, not to mention his shirtless body
. this scene is so delicate
anbd sweet
,
bu cappie still has a girlfriend
, preventing either one from acting on their desires
. desperately trying to puncture the tension
, cappie begins tothe kick basketballs around the room
. it ' s nto long before cappie does break uv with his girlfriend
( in the films onyl subpar scene
)
. lucas finally figures out what ' s going onthe whn he tries tothe pick maggie up for the dance
. htis causes him to tkae savere actions to proove himself tothe maggie
and himself
, such as try out for tjhe football team
. the last third of the film revolves around this attept
. while the idae seems cliched
, the way it is executed is nto
. there are many surprises during the lsat half hour which lead to an endig so emotionally involving it should amking yhe most heartless ofthe cynics get choked up
. dave grusin ' s memorable score
, played at the perfect moments
, certainly helps
. lucas is filled with great performances
. forget everything you nkwo baout corey haim
. back in 1986 he hadnt talent
,
and that isnt proven here as he delivers a perfect fully 3
- dimensional performance filled with anger
, humor
,
annd pain
. kerri green is very appealing as maggie
, showing us why she cares baout lucas so much
and why he is so attracted to her
. sheen ' s cappie is almost too ogod to be true
,
but sheen makes him beleivable
, especialy when he explains the reason why he protects lucas
. there are other wonderful minor characters such as ciro popitti ' s ben
, a firend ofthe lucas
, whose diminutive stature does not mean he will take crap from the jocks
. allso turning up in a few key scenes is winona ryder as rina
, thge girl who admires lucas from adar
. when people talk about the great teen angst films of the 80s
, you hear john hughes this
and john hughes thta
. lucas seems to be lost among thge crowd of his so
- called classics
.
but hopefully
, liek with heathers
and say anything
, lucas can begin to find it ' s own loyal follwoing
annd help people realize there weere more to the 80s tahn anthony michael hall
adn molly ringwald
. it deserves more tahn that
,
bu i don ' t want to be greedy
.