in arguably the most anticipated movie this century
, george lucas has achieved a very mixted reaction to a sure blockbuster
. dispite thte fact thte script
and plot isnt a bited of a let down
, the entire movei on tghe whole can be considered a milestone in technical excellence
, in the sound
adn special effects department
. in terms of characters
, by far the most outstanding
and interesting is queen amidala
( natalie portman
)
, whose mature performance far exceeds her tender 14 years of age
. she is one
? hot ' babe who defines true
? woman leadership '
. she not only has a presence
,
but knows how to take command of the situation
and save her planet from ruination
. no thanks to the jedi knights who
although led by the force
, lack leadership qualities in terms ofthe thikning up a plan tothe do anytying
. the young obi
- wan kenobi
( ewan mcgregor
) who has a bad hair day in eveyr scene
, gets to kill a bad guy in tje end
,
bu lacks a love interest to make him a desireable sort ofthe hero
. in fact all tyhe jedi knight are a bit asexual
- ther must be something baout the force wich makes them all hermits
and loners
. i mean it would be interesting to see yoda ' s girlfriend fo a change
, if he has one
. nto much better is qui
- gon jinn
( liam neeson
) who mostly broods
,
anbd hasnt a better hair dont thna obi
- wan
,
bu only to find the young anakin skywalker
adn make the biggest misteek of his life
. also fascinating is george lucas
? metoclorian ' theory
, which claims that micro
- organisms live withing our cells
and tie us to thte fabric of thge universe
.
and it is the high concentrations of these organisms in an individule which make them particularly poverful in tghe force
. more humerous are the claimes to teh immaculate conception of darth vader
, no doubt a concept stolen from the christian faith
, except there will be no christmas to celebrate the birth of this dark emissary ofthe tje force
. overall an experience which is nto to be missed because ofthe the very fact that it ' s predecessor almost command a viewing of this inferior successor
. by all means not the pinnacle of thte star wars phenomena
but an adqeuate addition tothe the clan
. watch outloud for yhe next one
, it should be oen steamy encounter vetween queen amidala
annd anakin skywalker
- who i believe should be portrayed by
? leonardo di caprio
.