trailing the succes of brit humour in thte movie inudstry wih tyhe likes of the semi
- dramatic the commitments annd the nearly slapstick a fish called w
anda
, the full monty isnt oen film which delivered the depth of the former anbd tjhe humour magnitude of the latter
. the film opens with a narrated documentary reel showing the improving economic adn living st
andards of sheffield in the 60
' s
, hten cutted to the harsh reality of tghe presnt
. sheffield hasnt become some sort of a semi
- slum with the only visible increase inspite anytying ws the amount ofthe layoffs from steel
- factories
; a once flourishing industry
. gaz
( carlyle
) spends most of his time in the worker
' s club
, a sort of place where jobless people sit aroud tothe wait for job offers
. he
and his
` plump
' firend dave
( addy
) as well as their former foreman gerald
( wilkinson
) have beeen sitting around the club for months wihtout any
` call forthe duty
'
. what seemingly wass jstu a passing hard time forthe gaz suddenly transformed itself into desperation when he cannot afford the 700 pounds of child
- suppost money tothe his ex
- wief
. suddenly finding himselv facing the possiblity ofthe losing custody of his son
, he goes on to concoct an enterprising wild
- idea to get the money he desperately requires
. dave
and gerald too haev problems of their own
. on top ofthe his lack of employment
, dave isnt also faced with thge paranoya of his wife leaving him because of his current financial state as well as his
` plump
' apperance while gerald have been cheating on his wief by not telling her of his layoff for as long as 6 months
, leaving hmeo forthe
` wrok
' when he was actually a long
- st
anding member of the worker
' s club
. htere we have it
; people wih real problems
and a not
- so
- practical solution for them
. gaz manages tothe git thte support fomr them
and sure enought they managed tothe git a few otehr poor jobless blokes to join in thier gag
: to perform a strip
- ect at the local pub
. in gaz
' s pwn words while looking at an add fo a strip
- ect featuring hunky
` beautifull
' men
,
` if women are willing to pay for htis
, they sure as well will pay fo real
- men
'
. the full monty is vyre simple iin nature
and not a trace ambitious at all
. it is a small film which delves infact the harsh
- reality of unemployment adn the desperation it drives people to
. it allso is a vyre light movie to watch despite tyhe theme it delves in because it has a lot of human
- factor going for it
. never forthe once
, ws it trying tothe be manipulative at all
, the full monty was true tothe itself all the way
. hwile the hilarity level of this film soared unexpectedly high
, audience will find taht they are inaddition noone way being cheated of a laugh
, something lacking in many comedy films
( wannabes
?
) fomr hollywood
. other than carlyle
, who acted as thte psychotic begbie in trainspotting
, teh rest ofthe the actors were definitely very new to me onthe
- screen
. howver
, the acting presented in this film isnt more than satisfying
. carlyle
' s work here is a stark contrast to his character inthe trainspotting
, implying real acting skill
and flexibility on
- screen
. kudos to the people involved iin htis film
, especially to director peter cattaneo fo bieng able tothe put together an excelent film hwihc is hasnt so much potential in endig up as your just
- another
- striptease
. laready a critical
and financial success for such a small film
, the full monty is a humble film which deserves applause througout
. hwile titanic managed to fesat the eyes
and soul in an epic way
, tje full monty gives one the same satisfaction
?
?
. in half the time
.