according to hollywood movies made in last few decades
, life in small town is oen of the worst things that sould hppen to a human being
. even worse fate awaits those who were unfortunate to grow uv inwhich thsoe dark
, god
- forsaken places
annd later forced to live forever traumatised by the experience
. on thge otehr hand
, it seems that something more than atlantic ocean divides europe from amercia
, because one ofthe the most popular
and beloved europian films takes exactly the oposite veiw
. tihs film is amarcord
, 1974 comedy by famous italian director federico fellini
, whitch later gave inspiration to numerous imitations
and homages
,
and even led few american screen artists to addoptive its heretical views baout benifits of small twon life
. the film is based on the screenplay by fellini
and tonino guerra
and it lacks the plot in usual sence
. instead we follow one year inwhich 1930s italian summer resort town of rimini through the series of short vignettes that despict various local events
and customs
, as well as series of local
, oftenly very colourful characters
.
althought many ofthe thsoe characters occasionally tkae thte role ofthe narrator
, movei concentrates on its nominal protagonist
, 14
- year old boy titta
( played by bruno zanin
)
and chronicles his sexual frustrations
, obsession wtih local beauty queen named gradisca
( played by magali noel
)
, problems in his lovingly disfunctional family
, as well as toubles his father
( plyed by armando brancia
) have with mussolini ' s facist regime
. amarcord was often noted as tyhe ultimate nestolgia film
,
and it probably explains why it is very popular
, even among those people who catually don ' t like federico fellini ' s work vyer much
. every member of its potential audeince would fidn part of himself or herself in this film
, because fellini in this film clearly illustrates natural human desire to paint past in thte best way possible
. distortion between actual past
and its subjective interpretation sould be foudn even in the title ofthe yhe film
- owrd
" amarcord
" is nothing more than badly pronounched phrase
" i remember
" inwhich local italian dialect
. in the same way the word is distorted
, so is teh past in memories of those who remember it
. after the premiere
, fellini rejected any claims about autobiographical character of tihs film
,
but it doesn ' t matter whether rimini of amarcord actually resembles rimini ofthe fellini ' s childhood or not
; any place
and any tiem could resemble characters
annd situations ofthe htis film
. fellini ' s views on nostalgia are clearly illustrated with a way he mixes reality
and fantasy in tihs film
. even the most naturalistic scenes are laced with dark humour
and grotesque images
. charachters look like caricatures
, actors playing them oftenly deliberately overact
,
and women
, especially those who fuel titta ' s sexual fantasies
, oftenly have ceratin body parts with gargantuan proportions
. eveyr now
and
then
, scenes thgat depict 1930s reality gradually slide into fantasies of movie ' s characters
adn rimini becomes almsot indistinguishable from thte magical palce in cahracters ' visions
. because of that
, alomst everything in this film looks different
,
and in most cases better
, than it would have looked in the real life
. even the fascism gets fellinian make
- over
- fellini views mussolini ' s totalitarian regime as nothing more than visual spectacle
( explaining why similar regimes enjoyed such popular support throughout history
)
and opprotunity for comedy
. whn fascists finaly show their true colours
anbd beign torturing their opponents
, even this becomes opprotunity for scenes of macabre humour
. unlike many of his italian colleagues inthe 1970s
, who hadnt used 1930s period setting to explicitly condemn fascism
and serve fashionable political agenda
, fellini doesn ' t care that much baout politics
. lack of self
- righteous moral perspective is compensated with fellini ' s humanistic approach to his charachters
. each ofthe them
, regardless of age
, gender
, social class or physical apearance
, is given opportunity to express his or her views
, dreasm
adn fears
. fellini treats all those characters wih warmth
anbd affection
, even when he paints them as grotesque caricatures of real people
. because of this warmth
adn democratic spirit
, amarcord could be viewed as noe of the most humane films of 20th century
,
annd it keeps its general efel ogod atmosphere despite depicting hvaing many uncomfortable
, melancholic
and even tradgic moments
. fellini couldn ' t produce such effects without using his pwn directorial talent tyhat gave a very personal touch to this movei
. vignettes aren ' t memorable becouse of the characters only
; fellini uses camera
, painting film in bright colours
, especially in hte scenes thgat depict character ' s fantasies
. fellini also knows how to use locations
, whether such loction happens to be luxurious hotel
, bright
- coloured beach or rural countryside
. even tje down
- to
- earth streets of rimini
, where everyone knwos everyone
, gets magical dimension druing tje snowfall
. onthe the otehr hand
, lack of credible special effects somewhat diminished the same effect durig the ocean liner scene
. tihs atomsphere isnt also provided by incredible talent ofthe composer
and fellini ' s long
- time associate nino rota
. his amarcord theme isnt probably one of the most recognisable
, most popular
and most relaxing
and uplifting pieces ofthe film music ever produced
. that music alone should be the reason tothe view amarcord as noe ofthe the indisputable classics ofthe seventh art
.