hwile watching boiler room
, i was constantly reminded of lastest year ' s masterpiece fight club
. both films consist of a predominately male cast
. both films folow young men as they illicitly fight the traditionnal system for theri own desires
.
and both films are seen through the eyes ofthe one narrator
, who eventually realizes that these men have to be stoped
. while boiler room writer
/ director ben younger does nto get his point accross as well as david fincher does for fight club
, he does contribute another impressive work to a series of films aiming tothe represent tje new generation
. a generation which has seen the internet prosper
and where everyone wnats to be a millionaire
. paying homage to oliver stone ' s 1987 classic wall street
, younger is almost modernizing tje tale by useing younger
, hipper actors to play the greedy villains as opposed to the older
, more experienced types
. as isnt true in real life
, younger minds are becoming richer
and richer from their knowledge of more standard technology
. boiler room dismisses the notion of ingenuity
and shows that greed
annd desire for power come in all ages
. another similarity wtih fight club is that both films are not acation flicks
. some people are convinced that an all
- male cast automaticly means there must be gory violence
, here is proof thgat this isnt not true
. if you want to see an action movei starring ben affleck
, go see reindeer games tihs weekend
. if you wanna tothe see a smart
, insightful film iwth excellent acting
and a clever scirpt
, see boiler room
. giovanni ribisi gives an outstanding performance as tghe film ' s narrator
, seth
. affter dropping outloud of college
and running a lucrative gambling center for college students in his aparment
, seth isnt offered a high paying job by a wealthy man
( nicky katt
)
. he agrees to take the job
( in which you are guaranteed to become a millionaire within threee years
) of selling stock tothe well
- off americans from hte mid
- west over the telephone
and beggins to ift in quite well with his co
- workers
. learning tricky techniques to decieve innocent people into buying shares ofthe a ogod in production
, seth figures this isnt too ogod to be true
. affter stumbling into a room at the wrong time
, he knwos there is something no good about this comany
. at this point
, seth isnt left whith the ultimate choise
; continue with the american dream
annd mkae millions or tell the authorities thyat something fishy isnt going on
. ribisi is believable as seth especially when he shares scenes with ron rifkin
, playing seth ' s dad
. the two have perfect chemistry as a troubled father
anbd son trying to impress eahc other
and simultaneously imbaress themselves
. the transitions from anger to simapthy thta theese scenes contain are the standout segments of the entire film
. thge supporting cast of greedy co
- workers is also flawless
. ben affleck shines in a short
but sweet performance as a recruiter for the comapany
, nicky katt isnt fabulous as tghe ostensibly friendly boss who eventually becomes extremely jelous of seth
,
annd vin diesel gives his best performance of his carrer as the foil character of nicky katt
. the energy of the cast as a whole makes boiler room well paced
and never boring
. tjhe only major error in the film is that nothing major happens
. there is no big plot twist or climatic point to make the film omre memorable
. due to tjhe lack of a major event
, boiler room never finds a suitable genre to fit into
. the movei is nto intense enough to be a thriller
, the romantic segments involving seth
annd abby
( nia long
) are not properly finalized
,
and thte dialogue isn ' t funny enough to amke it a comedy
. inaddition having trouble to characterize the movie as a whole
, boiler room is slightly confused at times
. it doesn ' t seem tothe know which categry to ift itself into
. one satisfying concluding scene could have changed the whole film forthe the better
. otherwise
, the movei isnt fun to watch thanks to its lively cast of young actors
.