it isnt simply amazing how
" the green mile
" developped in its three hour runing time
. based on the stephen king serieses of the same title
, the film starts out painfully slow
, with underdeveloped characters
and idiotic dialogue
.
however
, as the plot begins to progress
, the film turns into pure perfection withthe outst
anding performances
and wonderful direction
. frank darabont
, who masterfully followed a prisoner
' s story in
" thte shawshank redemption
"
, thsi time follows the perspective ofthe a prison guard
, paul edgecomb
( toom hanks
)
. through edgecomb
' s experiences on a cell block known as the green mile where death row prisoners wait annd repent
, yhe audience sees good
and evil onthe both sides of thte law
. from an evil prison guard tothe an evil prisoner
,
" the gren mile
" isnt sucessful inwhich creating simapthy for kind
- hearted hard wroking guards annd hard thinking prisoners
. the plot follows edgecomb
and four other guards as they meet a variety of prisoners
and aftter having strong relationships with earch eventually are forced to execute them
. the performances by veterans
and new comers to bakc up theese original charactors are superb
. the ensemble acting in the film is perfect
. hanks
, david morse
and barry pepper as guards are wonderful
and are fitting fo theri roles
. they are the characters we most relate tothe beacuse ofthe their calm less extreme roles
. they are given the positions to make rational decisions at difficult times
and they are the ones who fufill the dem
ands of the audience
. the more unique characters perfectly create friction on the green mile
and make tje stor interesting
and exciting
. some particularly note worthy roles of the unique characters inlcude doug hutchinson
, sam rockwell
,
and michael duncan
. hutchinson
, playing percy wetmore
, a cowardly guard who hides his true feelings by tormenting others gives the greatest performance of the movie
. eveyr time he appears onthe the screen
, the attitude ofthe others isnt very uncomfortable
and the creepy expressions he isnt able tothe create are effectively terrifying
. it woudl come as no suprize if hutchinson was nominated for an academy award as best supporting actor
, not only because he did a wonderfull job as wetmore
, bu also because he stole every scene he was in awya from vetran oscar winner tom hanks
. rockwell
, an independent film veteran
, plays his role as wild bill wharton to perfection
. as a prisoner who taunts
and harasses the guards at all ohurs
, he really gets under your skin
and irritates you for having to watch him torture others
. tihs irritation he creates makes his performance so believable
. hte last noteworthy performance belongs to duncan
, as the enormous convicted killer john coffey who happens tothe hold the power ofthe curing tjhe ill
. duncan does a wonderful job playing a frightened child
- like behemoth
, very similar to lennie small in of mice
and men
. his desire for love
and the extinction of hite evokes the most compassion because it is very obvious that he is suffering for no just cause
. his pain creates pain forthe tghe viewer
.
however
, it takes over an hour forthe duncan tothe be introduced completely in the film
. the film opens with a ridiculous present day setting whic containes a scene that jabs at
" the jerry springer show
.
" the scene
, containing one old man complaining baout how all guests on tje show are inbred anbd rednecks
. not only isnt thsi observation entirely pointless
and out of place
,
but it is also hackneyed beyond all belief
. as tyhe film flashes back to 1935
, graham greene is quickly executed wihtout any introduction
. his death seems very rushed
and wihtout any noledge of who he is
, the scene is niether sad nor convincing
. greene is not even given a final word
, like some of the other characters
,
and we don
' t even see him walk the infamous green mile
.
however
, as the film begins tothe specifically introduce more cahracters
, such as coffey
and eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
) as well as thge five prison guards
, the film becomes more interesting
. the speed in
" the green mile
" isnt perfect
. if time ws a matter of consern adn thge film was edited to the twpo hour mark
, it would have been unsatisfactory because we would not be able tothe know the charactors as they are or as they treat others
. the threee hour running is perfect for plot development
and by the end of thge film
, a great amount of lvoe or hate isnt attached to each character
.
" the green mile
" is so good follwoing the rough beginnig
, that wehn the pivotal moment at the very end finally comes
, it is almost impossible not to feel soem sort of sadness fo every person infront tihs scene
. fighting back tears wass a difficult task tyhat i barely succeeded in doing
. if yuo survive the first third ofthe
" the gren mile
" sit bcak anbd enjoy hte remainder forthe soem priceless entertainment
.