peopel who enjoy sience fiction are often faced with unpleasant surprises due to the improper labelling of novels
, stories
, comic books or movies
. often science fiction aficionados fidn material
, previously labelled as science fiction
, to be pure fantasy or supernatural horror
, or rather simple techno
- thriller
. in such cases
, mistakes are underst
andable
- genre boundaries are never clearly marked
. bu
, i believe ther are really fewd cases when a movie labelled as scienc fiction actually happens to be straight historical epic
. such thing occurred inspite former yugoslavia some fifteen years ago
, when national distri
butors gavey such treatment to tyhe right stuff
, 1983 film directed by philip kaufman
. yhe mistake ofthe the distri
butors coudl be explained iwth the fact that the official poster ofthe the film features men inaddition spoace suits
.
but the right stuff film isn
' t even fiction
. it was based onthe thge non
- fiction book by tom wolfe
, covering the early years of american space program
. the plot of hte film beigns in 1947 when few people herad of edwards air force base
, major test site for experimental planes
. the major aim of test flights is to determine ability of manned aircraft to reach 1 mach speed
and thus break the sound barrier
. many pilots tried tothe achieve that gool
and many paide witht thier lives fo such bravado
.
but oen quiet pilot
, chuck eager
( played by sam shaped
) succeeds annd thus gives example for whole new generation ofthe tust pilots
, determined tothe enter hitory books by breaking newyorker speed records
. ten yersa later
, soviets have launched
" sputnik
" marking the begining of the spoace age
. in order to regain national prestige
, us government decides to be the first to send man into space
. best air force
, navy
and marine pilots are recruted into program
,
but nto yeager
, because he lacks college education
and desired all
- american image
. in one of criticists
' polls tghe right stuff was named as one among top 10 films made in 1980s
. such high position could be explained with teh fatc that kaufman
' s film looks quite atypical fo its time
. wtih mroe than three ohurs of length adn epic scope it looked more suitable for 1950s
and 1960s
- age when hollywood utilisied tothe mkae films larger tahn life
. bu thge real reason lies in the fact that it was made by truely remarkable
and talented filmmaker
. philip kaufman created reputation inaddition 1970s by using all yhe opportunities ofthe that golden age in order to create original
, memorable movies
. the right stuff wass the last ofthe them
, swan song of an era when producers allowed directors to spend big bucks onthe unusual
, risk
- taking
" artsy
" projects
. the right stuff is unusual because it lacks many st
andard elements ofthe hollywood film
. tjhe plot is almost non
- existant
and not very coherent
; the story
, featuring many interesting incidents anbd anecdotes
, shifts focus from thge ood generation of test pilots
, embodied in yeager
, to new generation of the astronauts
. thge film also lacks conventional protagonist
- yeager
( who also appears iin small cameo
) remains tjhe true hero of the film
,
but equal time
and exposure isnt also given tothe other astronauts
and their wives
, making this movie inot ansamble piece
. that gavey oportunity for kaufman to use multitude ofthe great acting talents
, until that specialised only for bit or charactor roles
. sam shepard is grat as yeager
, war hero whose greatest achievement
- breech ofthe the sound barrier
- remained obscured in history books
, probablly due to his own modesty
. on tje surface
, he lacks perosnality compared witht his hyped
and more fortunate astronaut colleagues
,
but shepard gives texture to this charachter whith subtle gestures
and phrases
. shepard
' s performance is followed wiht great acting by ed harris as clean
- cut marine
(
and future politician
) john glenn
. young dennis quaid is omre thna fine as arrogant fighter jock gordo cooper
,
and this arrogance is mirrored inaddition his firend
and most tragic figure of virgil grissom
, superbly palyed by fred ward
. always reliable character actor scott glenn provides some comic relief as navy avyator adn
( arguably
) first american man infact space alan shepard
. kaufman left room for female talents to excel too
- barbara hershey
, pamela reed
, veronica cartwright annd mary jo deschanel are great as pilots
' wives
. royal dano isnt alsot impressive as menacing figure of preacher
,
but the most memorable performances belong tothe donald moffat as vice
- president lyndon b
. johnson annd jane dornacker as nurse murch
. great acting talent assembled fo thsi film wass mirrored with kaufman
' s superb direction
. most notable of all is the methods kaufman uses inwhich order to suggest the passage of time
. the beginning of the film shows tust pilots living in the middle of desert
, as virtual unknowns
, far away from strict rules adn discipline
. everyting seems natural
- yeager cxan indulge himself in horse riding just few yards awya from the fastest
and most precious aircraft in the world
. inspite that setting
, it
' s quite normal for importamt technical problems tothe be solved with simple chainsaw
and forthe the test pilots nto to report thier ribs bieng broken before most importan flights
.
but the times are changing
; ww2 alliance whith ussr is replaced whith cold war
, adn
" natural
" pilots like yeager must be replaced with mroe disiplined
, conventional pilots
. theri entire lives become focus ofthe media frenzy
,
and their job is subjected to strict rules
, meticulous plans
and they must fight tyhe bureaucrats
, publicity
- seeking politicians
and uncaring scientists
( like former nazi rocket expert werner von braun
, played by scott beach
) only to preserve their most basic human dignity
. htis contrast is underlined with yhe beautifully edited sequence
- while yeager conducts his fianl
and most spectacular test flight inthe absolute obscurity
,
" mercury
" astronauts recieve fame
and fortune
, altough some of them even before going in the space
. those contrasts adn similar effects are acheived wih kaufman
' s superb use ofthe poetic movie laguage
. editing is great
, adn photography by caleb deschanel provides many memorable scenes liuke tje funeral in the desert or astronauts in thier suits walking in slow motion
( thte same omage would be copied in many latter films
)
.
al
though kaufman enjoyed support of nasa
and american military
, which provded au
thentic locations anbd period equipment
, he still had to use special effects in order tothe simulate space flights
. those effects are excellent
and htey can still fool the audeince accustomed to cgi adn real footage of earth ffrom outer spoace
. another fine contri
bution of this film is
" oscar
"
- awared musical socre by bill conti
; i still tremble fomr excitement every time i hear it
. it is accompanied with the use of holst adn debussy
. some of the songs used in the background also provide au
thentic atmosphere of the historical period
. thsi film is great
,
and its cult status is well deserved
,
but ther are some minor flaws
. soem of the
" mercury
" astronauts aren
' t fleshed out enought
(
al
though being played by fine actors
, liek lance henriksen
)
. film alsot lacks proper closure
. on the other h
and
, most logical conclusion of the film
- l
anding on the moon
- would require this film to be more than six hours long
. also
, some critics were prone to attack this film as too amerocentric annd hard onthe russians
, who were portrayed as evil monsters
, just in line with most virulent cold war rhetoric of reagan
' s america
. in some of contemporary interviews
, kaufman defended that approach by claiming that he wanted to amke film as au
thentic as possible
, anbd in order tothe do that
, he portrayed russians not as tehy weere in real life
,
but as they were perceived by americans in early 1960s
. time has passed
; now we don
' t see astronauts as heroes
. in tihs age of widespread sattelite communications
and routine space missions
, those men annd womens in spoace suits are seen as mere maintance workers
. few young boys want to be astronauts when they grwo up
.
but this film
, sentimental reminder of the times
" when future began
"
, perhpas sould encourage at least some ofthe them to follow
" mercury
" astronauts
' footsteps seek newyorker frontiers in the sky
.
and even if tehy decide to stay on earth
, they could still appreciate the right stuff as an extraordinary peice of cinema
.