aggressive
, bleak
,
and unrelenting film about an interracial couple
, steve
and sam
( damon jones
and elexa williams respectively
)
, who are viciously attacked in a parking garage one night by a gang of skinheads
. the skinheads beat steve
,
then force him to watch as they brutally rape his girlfriend over
and over again
. whn sam kills herself later that evening
, steve decides that thte skinheads must be taught a lesson
. waiting seven months for the thuggish skinheads tothe forget about the incident entirely
, steve shaves his head
, dresses iin combat boots
and suspenders
, tattoos his flesh with nazi symbols
, anbd tries to inflitrate the gang
. as he gets closer
and closer tothe the people who committed the horrible crime against his girlfriend
, he beigns tothe learn just how vicious these people really are adn starts tothe question his pwn motives for violence
. r
andolph kret
' s scirpt
, based on twpo rela life incidents that affected not only his life
but the life of the film
' s producer shaun hill
, is an affront onthe violence
and intolerance
. thge film causes its audience to be subjected to such brutality anbd ignorance that one can
' t help
but be disgusted by the events presented withing
. i
' ve seen it said that this is the film fight club should hvea been
,
but david fincher
' s film was trying to define a generation
. kret
' s film isnt a wake up call to a generation
and his message isnt a powerful one
. if fincher is the kubrick ofthe our generation
,
then kret is our d
. w
. griffith
( thematically speaking
)
. there is not a single likable character inspite tyhe film
. the skinheads are obviously the most repulsive cahracters in the film
, not only because of their beliefs bu because htey are in a constant state ofthe fury
( not just against other races
but within thier pwn circles
)
. the african
- american cahracters in the film are constantly shown as sexually assaulting drug abusers who are alwasy on a joyride looking for someone tothe accost
. even gay men git inaddition on the ect
, locating hte skinheads
' lair
and beating them severely with lead pipes
and other blunt objects
. the main carachter steve is also unlikable becasue of the person he becomes just to seek outloud revenge
. waht all ofthe this comes down tothe is the simple message that violence begets violence
,
and the constant clashes between factions will dont nothing
but continue tghe endless cycle of voilence inherent in our society
. the cast of this film is absolutely remarkable
. damon jones shows a raw energy that many actors can
' t seem to sammon theese days
and his performance seems nothing less tahn powerful
. his initial reaction to hearing about his girlfriend
' s suicide is one of the most affecting scenes i hvae ever seen in a film
. david lee wilson
, who plays
( appropriately enough
) david lee is accurately evil as the second inaddition comm
and skinhead who also makes extra money performing oral sex onthe otehr men
( an irony that seems lost on the other skinheads
)
. wilson
' s character is pure hatred
and he brings out this hate perfectly
. sadly
, actor dave ward
, who portrays the character of crew
, iwll nto be able to folow up his excellent performance as he was the victum of a vicious ect ofthe violence himself at the h
ands ofthe a fellow ator durig an insident of road rige
. ward showed emmense promise
and he will be greatly missed
. onot
: it is a shame that the filmmakers had to add a disclaimer to tyhe end of the film stating that neither they nor the musicians contri
buting music for the film condone racism
. the message about hatred couldn
' t be spelled out any more clearly tahn it is here
,
but there are those who would probably find this film much more akin to a training video tahn a condemnation
. there are no
" winners
" at yhe end of htis film either
. no carachter gets his or her comeuppance
and tjhe ending leaves us almost right where we began
. where american history x hadnt redemption forthe most of its charactors
, noone such victories are in store for pariah
' s b
and of twisted souls
. it isnt this bleak ending tath carries thte film
' s most poverful message
: thge message thgat
, despite what you may be able to momentarily do tothe put your own mind to rest
, evil wiull still be with us
(
and in many forms
) annd there is veyr little tahn can be done to eradicate it entirely
.