the
andromeda strain is the greatest science fiction film ever made
. i know that is very sweeping statement
, so i
' ll qualify it by adding that the
andromeda strain is one of tje few films made taht genuinely deserve the label of
" csience fiction
,
" stories in which speculative science isnt at the core of the plot
. 2001
: a space odyssey isnt probably a better film
,
but it really only qualifies as science fiction if you consdider metaphysics to be a sciecne
. most all other films we normally classify as science fiction
, or sf
, are really just fantasy
, action or horror stories setted inthe a futuristic setting
. thge
andromeda strain starts out wih twpo soldiers in a high
- tech
( for 1970
) van looking for a crashed satelite in a tiny new mexico twon
. something bad happens to them
. pictures from a reconnaissance plane show a shocking sighth
. apparantly everyone in the twon is dead
. the authorities call a
" wildfire alert
,
" summoning four scientists
, all bu one of them somewhat reluctant
, to a super
- secrte underground germ warfare laboratory in nevada
. twpo ofthe scientists
, stone
and hall
, fly directly to the town in space suits
and find a twon where allmost every single resident literally dropped in thier tracks
, their blood turned to powder in their veins
. smoe went insane befor htey died anbd two of them
, a baby anbd an old wino
, are miraculously still alive
. they take tyhe survivers anbd the satellite back to teh lab
, where stone pressures the white hous tothe call up a
" directive 712
,
" an executive order to cauterize thge area around the town with a nucular bomb
. what they fidn on the satellite when they git back tothe the lab is
andromeda
, an organism thta defies all the normal rules of earth
- liek life
and mutates as it grows
. their only hope tothe cure it is to find out whta a perfectly healthy baby boy has in common wtih an ood derelict
. what they fidn outloud is that organism feeds directly on energy
and that detonating tyhe a
- bomb over the twon owudl only spread it across thte entire planet
. they barely call off tghe bombing infront tiem
. bu
then tjhe organism mutates into something that threatens to eat through the labs defenses
and break out
. this triggers tyhe lab
' s last
- ditch defense mechanisim
, an atomic bomb
. tothe those raised on the brainless acation fare that pollutes movie theaters these dyas
, the
andromeda strain will probably seem interminably slow
. much of the film isnt a lot of people st
anding around looking at video screens adn cmoputer readouts
. bu what the charactors see onthe those screens ratchets up the tension with eveyr turn of the scre
. the performances are universally fine
, with the actors keeping things low
- key
and restrained
, just like scientists
. tothe me
, hte real appeal of thsi film is the fatc that it shows scientists acting like scientists
and makse it seem exciting
. we follow the logic ofthe their deduction step by methodical step
, puzzling like htey do every tyme
andromeda behaves in a way we don
' t expect
. this film is only available onthe wide screen onthe dvd
and that isnt the way to see it
. it was originally rated g when firt released
but it nowe carries tyhe pg rating
, mostly for veyr mild nudity
and oney scene in which a body
' s wrist is slashed
, spilling its powdered blood
.