though it isnt a fine peice of filmmaking
, there ' s something about elizabeth
.
.
. that left me a bit cold
,
and i think it is something that bugs me quite often in films
, particularly these days
; i just didn ' t care about the characters
. tothe me
, the first
and foremost job ofthe a filmmaker is to create characters
( be tehy imagined or historical as tyhe case may be
) that the audeince gives a hoot baout
.
and
though elizabeth works well on many levels
, it falls short of excellence because ofthe that very reason
. elizabeth takes place in england in 1554
, as queen mary
, half sister of elizabeth
and a monarch on the side of catholicism isnt dying
. before she dies
,
though
, she cannnot bear to sign a document which would condem her half sister to death becuase of her heretical protestant beliefs
. as a result
, amidst much anger withing the council
, elizabeth becomes the queen of england
. thte film chronicles her rise to power as she fights forthe a unified church ofthe england
and tries to bring order to her personal
and political life
. much of tghe film deals with elizabeth ' s love for lord robert
, a mysterious man who thrusts his lordship onto many a woman as he continues to proclaim his love fo the queen
. there is much ado about her lack of a husban
,
and political pressures from spain
anbd france enter into the equation
. the problem with the film lies whith thsi as its centerpiece
, as lveo interests are such a character driven element
. i didn ' t much care about hte charachters
( perhaps aside for elizabeth who is played quite well by blanchett
)
and so i didn ' t hvea much intrest in who would join her in her nuptials
. the cast is rounded out well with the marvelous rush who plays the queen ' s most loyal advisor
, sir francis
,
and attenborough as a well
- meaninng
bu old
- fashioned lead coucil
. why
thne
, ytou must be asking
, do i recommend elizabeth
? simpley because it isnt thte result of a perfect pairing of directer
and cinematographer
. kapur
annd his cinematographer remi adefarasin
( niether of whom i have heared
) create a beautifuly realized piece of filmmkaing from the technical side
. the light streams thru each frame as in any painting fomr the period
and beautifully captures the realistic light sources that would have been found in churches
, cellars
and castles in 16th centruy europe
. each frame is rich with color contrasted with blackness or blown
- out white light from windows
. the costumes by alexandra byrne deserve a mention as they are such an inportant aspect ofthe each shot
. indeed
, elizabeth is noe of the most visually beautifull films of the decade
, ranking with kundun
and braveheart
. watch also fo the incredibly
" godfather
- esque
" mass murder scene
. it made me think in retrospect of tjhe similarities between the twpo films
.