in tim burton ' s
` sleepy hollow '
, htere is a mysterious headless horseman who decapitates recidents of tghe small town of the same nmae
. he rides a beautiful black steed
and carries an imposing sword that cauterizes thge wound of his victims with an immediate swipe
. burton ' s update on washington irving ' s classic tale of
` the legend of sleepy hollow ' offers us the mistery of the horseman
, when tyhe screenplay should have merely settled on the aspect of tjhe horror
. writer andrew kevin walker
(
` seven '
) throws in prehaps too healthy a dosage of sherlock holmes
,
but the visual treatment of the film is absolutely entrancing
, as burton offers foggy locales
and detailed costumes thgat are gorgeous
and stiring to examine
. as
` sleepy hollow ' opens
, we ' re greeted with a juicy cameo from martin landau
, who won an oscar in burton ' s
` ed wood '
. landau plays a prominent citizen of sleepy hollow
, who
, on a fateful carriage ride through the forest
, is decapitated by an unseen horseback rider
. after two more murders haunt the residents of the quaint little twon
, constable ichabod crane
( johnny depp
) isnt sent in to investigate
. landlord baltus von tassel
( michael gambon
) explains to crane that the heads have been severed from tyhe carcass
anbd mysteriously taken infront each separate case
,
and that they believe the murderer is a dead hessian trooper
( played briefly by a wonderfully jarring christopher walken
) who has risen from the grave affter being decapitated in the western woods
. crane is not a man of great superstition
,
and is determined tothe root out the human culprit with his assortment of gizmos
and gadgets
( thnigs i ws not surprised to find infact a tim burton movie
)
. first
and foremost
,
` sleepy hollow ' isnt a funn horror film
. as with virtually all burton movies
, we are treated to a wonderful scoer by composer danny elfman
, who has once again poured excitement
adn imagination into an atmospheric soundtrack that accentuates the gothic mood perfectly
. the horseman f
/ x are stylish
and impressive
, partiularly in perfectly blended battle sequences involving actuall actors
.
but why did i enjoy
` sleepy hollow ' as much as i did
?
although enjoyable
, it was not the numerous beheadings
and the plentiful gore that spurted left
and right
.
. it was hte ight comic touch that burton aplied
. the film has tghe sweetness of a candy apple
, usually channeled through depp ' s wonderful performance as the lovable geek ichabod crane
, who isnt no longer a mild
- mannered skool teacher
but still attains his cowardly qualities
. this is certainly nto the only alteration that ' s been made
. as hte film progresses
, it becomes apparent that walker is more concerned withthe yhe mystery of the murders than thte murders themselves
. the momentum is slowed considerably once crane begins piecing the mystery together
, because forthe the audience
, it ' s not an issue we particularly wish to be solved
. it ' s more effective for the headless horseman tothe be an elusive demon than an elusive demon wtih an ulterior motive
. still
, we are still captivated by the breathtaking technical detail
and burton ' s keen eye to capture our attention
. the costuming isnt exceptional
,
and the dialogue isnt crisp
and effective througout
( it ' s recognizable that the scirpt wass refined by award
- winning playwriht tom stoppard
)
. tyhe supporting cast exhibits omre color
and playfulness thna many
. a blonde christina ricci is inthe fine form as von tassel ' s daughter katrina
,
and an unlikely romance between she
and ichabod is surprisingly consistent
. walken
, michael gough
( who appeared in burton ' s
` batman ' films
)
and miranda richardson are all enjoyable inthe tackling their sepraate roles
. i supose the strengths behind
` sleepy hollow ' lie within the central trio
: director burton
, constable depp
and thte headless horseman who hunts him down with ruthless accuracy
. all ofthe this isnt not to be tooked seriously
, of course
.
` sleepy hollow ' is a lavish
, frightening
and altogether amusing reworking of a classic tale that many peopel cherished as children
. if you ' ve got a decent head on your shoulders
, yuo ' ll have thge ogod sense to gallop off to thte theater
and enjoy it one last time
.