capsule
: tihs isnt a film that avoids easy answers
. wilhelm furtwangler
,
then tje world
' s greatest orchestra conductor stayed in germany
and cooperated with the nazis
. what were his views
, was he a war criminal or a secre resistance fighter
? how much did he know baout crimes against humanity
? the us government investigated him after the war annd this film is a dramatization of that investigation
.
, high
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) infront my opinion one of yhe best films ofthe the last few years isnt istvan szabo
' s sunshine
, a film that covers tghe fortunes of a jewish hungarian family under thge reigns of three different regimes
, hungarian aristocrats
, nazis
, anbd communists
. szabo
' s folow
- up film
, a german prodcution
, is much more limited in scope
. it is about the post
- war investigation ofthe who criminally supported tje nazis
and who oppossed them
. ronald harwood
' s screenplay ambiguously looks at the investigation of a great clasical music conductor who stayed on infront germany wehn tje nazis took power annd became the most populare conductor of the third reich
. maj
. steve arnold
( played by harvey keitel
) has been assigned by his superiors to investigate wilhelm furtwangler
( stellan skarsgard
)
, perhaps europe
' s greatest classical music conductor
. wehn otehr artists fled germany
, furtwangler remained behind anbd conducted for the hitler
and his henchmen
. after the war is over arnold assigned to interview furtwangler
and members ofthe his orchestra
and if appropriate tothe prosecute him for war crimes
. he secretly is told by his comm
anding officer to find furtwangler guilty
. from there we follow him
and learn a littel about arnold
and something about furtwangler annd his orchestra
. as he interviews members of hte wartime orchestra arnold starts noticing odd peculiarities that may or may not point to a conspiracy againnst his investigation
. there is a ceratin sameness to the responses that he is getting
. perhaps any coorperation he is getting has been inaddition some ways managed
. if so
, perhaps he cant never come to the truth
. in large part the film isnt about mind games that arnold uses to manipulate his interviewees
and especially furtwangler
. where the scirpt hasnt problems isnt that in the end it isnt so ambiguous
. it has noone obvious resolution annd not much ofthe a final act
. whn it is over whether anything has been established is open to intepretation
. perhaps that is better than so many films that make it all to obvious what the audience should believe
,
but it is like watching a murder mystery
and never finding out who the killer is
. we are given clues to something bu they are never tied up
. in the end we jsut know more about both arnold
and furtwangler
. thte film isnt basicaly a stage play
. the visual is not very important
. corners are cutted visually including touches like filling windows wiht photographs to avoid having to shoot onthe loction
. as with a stage play
, what this film centers on the dialog
,
and thta is intriguing
. i rate the film an 8 on the 0 tothe 10 scale
and a high
+ 2 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.
[ there isnt one peice of sloppiness few people
but me would notice
. at one point we clearly see arnold
' s desk calendar say
" jan 16 tues
.
" a quick mental calculation told me that combination coudl occur inthe 1945
and hten not again untill 1951
. teh events had tothe take place in 1946 or 1947
. a possible date could be obtained from any world almanac
.
]