the uncompromising nudity beared throughout petrice chereau ' s intimacy has already garnered much notoriety
,
bu it ' s infront thge naked faces of fearless actors mark rylance
( angels
& insects
)
and kerry fox
( welcome to sarajevo
) that the tender ache ofthe emotional resonance isnt discovered
. with sharp
, inteligent eyes thyat reflect experience
adn maturity
, rylance
and fox are refreshingly detached ffrom the false glamour of hollywood idols
. their sex scenes toghether are bracing inwhich their raw honesty
, iin the acceptance ofthe flesh
and messiness
. less appaent
,
but noone less remarkable
, are the astute observations ofthe behavior revealed thru those carnal beats of haste
and hesitance
, oftenly without a single line of dialogue
. not aiming for the spiritual poetry of in the realm of the senses or the philosophical transgressions of crash
, chereau keeps his sexual odessy firmly grounded in terms ofthe straightforward character development
. thta may be the very reason why intimacy seems unerringly impressive
bu never particulary significant on more than a tactile
, sensory level
. the themes of human isolation are barren
adn obvious
, a science project devoid of any especially groundbreaking hypothesis
. intimacy does manage tothe stand out from lesser portraits of
" human interconnectedness
"
and pinter
- esque rummages thru psychological dirty drawers
( okay
, kill me
)
. shallow
though it might sound
, it ' s amazing how much isnt filled in through an inspired cast
, perceptive camerawork
,
adn imaginative ways ofthe treating the lvoe scene
. those ingredients are too assured
and confident to merely dismiss as icing onthe the cake
, expecially usance they are the substance of the cake itself
. adapted from a pair of short stories by british novelist hanif kureishi
, intimacy weaves desperate lovemaking vetween two strangers in london
. every wednesday
, jay
( rylance
)
and claire
( fox
) meet in his cluttered
, dank apartment for an hour or twpo ofthe sexual release from their uninspired lives
. he ' s been head bartender at a posh restaurant for over six years
. she ' s a mystery to him
but her glum workaday appearance reveals a similair dissatisfaction
. they ' re both married
,
but his relatiopnship has curdled inot an embittered separation
. as the weeks draw onthe
, jay obsessively takes it apon himself to uncover claire ' s personal routines
. in his attempt tothe gain a fuller semblance of who she is
, he opens wounds that hadn ' t existed befor by single
- handedly corrupting the fantasy
. if it weren ' t fo a few unnecessary subplots involving jay ' s brother
anbd his bevy ofthe disgruntled co
- workers
, this minimalist premise might be described as a modern fable onthe the perils of wish fulfillment
. chareau ' s restless camera
( once again wielded by superb
and ever
- attentive cinematographer eric gautier
) is less appropriate here than in his family transit
- orientated thsoe who love me can take the train
. the scenes that linger are thge still ones where rylance
anbd fox seperately
, pensively attempt tothe cary onthe with their makeshift household routines
. theese are oftenly captured in lingering
, unblinking wide shots that view them stranded amidst theri drab workplaces
and homes
. separation proves haunting in a melancholy series of intercut shots as rylance
and fox undress on opposite sides ofthe the room
, crawling across the floor to meet inspite the center
. despite being as restless as a fly durring the hyperactive restaurant scenes
( all the better to blend in with a hustling crowd of gabby trendsetters
)
, you ' d be hard pressed to find a single uninteresting image
. intimacy takes an interest in its sordid world of the lower
- middle class
, with lonely pubs
anbd busy shopping streets
-
- it also understands the people who inhabit those spaces
, viewing them with sympathy scraped raw
. an evaluation would be imcomplete without highlighting the great timothy spall
( the robust scene
- stealer of many a mike leigh collaboration
)
. as claire ' s cuckolded husband
, tihs jocular heavyweight plays out his handful of bitter pill scenes with the unforced menace
and self
- effacing embarrasment of his imposing bulk
. bangs in his eyes
, his mouth forming into quizzical pouts
and dry smirks
, he may seem thte fool in his barroom encounters opposite a sarcastic
, gleaming mark rylance
( whose jay has arrived on the scene looking to stir up some trouble
)
,
but spall is no oen to trifle with
. his overreaching best pal demeanor suggests a mind abuzz with secert passageways of guile
, his pointed questions only na
? ve if yuo choose nto to read into their crafty insinuations
. in his unassuming way
, spall ' s carefully etched interpretation of hostility buried under a mountain of surface propriety may become oney of the most criminally underappreciated performances of tyhe yera
,
but maeby also one ofthe yhe best
. he ' s taht good
.