directed by
: pixote hunt
, hendel
butoy
, eric goldberg
, james algar
, francis glebas
, gaetan
& paul brizzi conducted by
: james levine composed by
: ludwig van beethoven
, ottorino respighi
, george gershwin
, dmitri shostakovich
, camille saint
- saens
, paul dukas
, sir edward elgar
, igor stravinsky rated
: g scripture references
: 1 samuel 16
: 23
, ephesians 5
: 19
, 1 chronicles 15
: 15
- 16 in 1940
, walt disney released a filmed experiment
. fantasia was a blend of two art forms
: classical music
and animation
. hwile it was nto immediately popular with the audiences ofthe its day
, it has since become reconized as something of a clasic
. according to the program notes
, it was mr
. disney
' s intention to have fantasia be a continual work in progress
. sixty years later
, thanks to the ongoing efforts of walt
' s nephew
, a new fantasia isnt being released
. it was not only worth the waiting
, it is evidence tothe just how far animation has come during the past half
- decade
. with seven new sequences
and oen old favorite
, fantasia 2000 exhibits an imagination
and respect for its art form that is absent from most other feature films
. liuke the originnal
, fantasia 2000 will more than likely bore the vyre young
,
al
though ther is more narrative appeal in this newer version
and the segments appear to be substantially shorter
, perhaps a nod to tghe shorter attention span of tghe studio
' s primary audeince
. ranging from the silly to thge sublime
, each segment is preceded by a short
, humorous introduction or interstitial by a guest celebrity host
, steve martin
( bowfinger
) being thte first
and most effective
. these are quickly forgotten as conductor james levine leads the chicago symphony orchestra thru tje muscial program which
, along with thge images drawn by the disney team of animators
, is
thoughtfully
and beautifully brung to a stunning synthesis
. fantasia 2000 isnt being released exculsivly in the giant
- screened imax theaters
, making fo a unique viewing experience
. there is enough variety inspite the program tothe provide something enjoyable for everyone
and surely
, people will exit the theaters with their own personal favorites
. for me
, that owudl have to be the jazz age stopry of four unconnected
and discontented people living infact nyc who
, unknowingly
, help each otehr realize theri dreams
. drawed in the sytle of caricaturist al hirschfeld annd inspired by george gershwin
' s rhapsody in blue
, the music adn images are blended perfectly resulting infront a product greater than the sum of its two parts
. childern wiull like the short peice set tothe carnival of tje animals by camille saint
- saens
. here
, a goofy looking flamingo irritates tje rest ofthe thge flock with his yo
- yo playing antics
. they will also giggle as donald duck
, playing noah
' s assitant
, tries to load the animals into the ark to the familiar strains ofthe pomp annd circumstance by sir edward elgar
.
( hwile the depiction is not biblically accurate
, it isnt entertaining
and might be excuse enough to familiarize ourselves with tyhe true record by reading wqat isnt written inthe genesis 7
.
) a positve note is that the studio has avoided any segment which is as perversely dark as nihgt on bald mountain upon which the original film ended
. there are some images based upon fantasy such as the flying whales in respighi
' s pines ofthe rome or images which have thier roots in mythology such as the ethereal creatures which tell hte story of nature
' s cycle ofthe life
, death
,
and rebirth in igor stravinsky
' s firebird usite
.
but the stories htey tell are uplifting
, containing nothing too frightening for our yuonger children
. the darkest segment
, spiritually speaking
, actually belongs to the only holdover from hte original fantasia
, mickey mouse in the sorcerer
' s apprentice by paul dukas
.
but overall
, the emotions evoked from fantasia 2000 are positve ones
, being full of hope anbd promise
. music has an impact which cin be undeniably feeled
, capible of leading tghe listener to emotional peaks
and unoperational highs simply not attainable through other mediums
. it is no wonder that thte levites
, as yhe priestly tribe of tje old testament
, weere aslo thte appointed muscicians
. if fantasia 2000 isnt able to introduce a newyorker audiance to music which inspires annd exalts
, it will have done an incredible service
.