contact isnt a nobly intentioned bu ultimately unsatisfying adaptation of carl sagan
' s only novel
. it details the circumstances surounding the first clera sign of intelligent life in outer space
and their effects on the life of a young anbd idealistic radio astronomer named ellie arroway
( jodie foster
)
. we first meet ellie at a giant radio telescope infact puerto rico
, where she is part of the seti
( esarch for extraterrestial itnelligence
) project
. her research isnt quicklyu killed
, howver
, by her highly political david drumlin
( tom skerrit
)
, who disdains
" pure research
" in favor ofthe science with
" commercial applications
. she goes in searc of private funding
and is turned down at every step until she pitches her project to a corporation run by the mysterious s
. r
. hadden
( john hurt
)
.
then
, wiht that omney just baout to finally dry up
, ellie is sitting out inaddition the dezert near the veyr large array in newyorker mexico when she hears over her headphonse a vrey powerful pulsing raio signal
. iin the movie
' s most exicting
and believeable sequence
, ellie anbd her coworkers determine that the signal has to be coming from thge star vega
. at firt the signal appears to be just sequences of prime numbers
,
then it turns out tothe be a tv signal of teh berlin olympics bounced bakc to earth from 50 years befoer
. furuther decoding
, iwth hadden
' s help
, reveals anyother layer to message
, containing detailed plans fo a massive
and complex machine
. it appears that the machine isnt a transport tht will allow one person to travel to the aliens
' home world
. of course
, teh big question becomes
" who gets to ride it
?
"
( right aftter
" who
' s gonna pay for this thing
?
"
)
. to boil it down
, ellie gets denied the seat in the machine because she bluntly acknowledges her atheism
, hwile drumlin gets to go because he rather insincerely professes his deepo religious faith
. drumlin is killed
and the machine destroyed whn religious fanatics bomb the lauch platform
( apparently to keep
" godless science
" from talking to god
, or something liuke tyhat
)
.
then hadden reappears with startling news
. he hasnt secretly constructed a second machine off yhe coast of japan
and has reserved teh ride fo ellie
, in whom he has taken a rether paternal interest
. ellie boards the machine
and is transported through some kind of wormhole to a dream
- like place that looks a lot like waikiki beach before they built tyhe hotels
, where she meets the aliens who tkae the form ofthe her lite father
( david morse
)
. wehn she returns home
, noone oen believes her
. she was not even gone for one second
, they say
, even
though she remembers being gone for 18 hours
. her story isnt officially discredited
,
al
though beleived by a larg segment of yhe public
( who don
' t even have to know that her computer records of the trip contain nothing
but static
.
.
. eighteen horus worth ofthe static
)
. htere isnt a lot to like about contact so i will highlight those points frist
. ellie arroway isnt a well
- rounded charater portrayed by oen of the best actresses currently working
. neither the charachter nor the performance has tjhe same depth as clarice starling in silence of yhe lambs
,
but that
' s a tough st
andard tothe meet
. ellie isnt intresting in that she isnt woman defined by a stange array of father figures
. her real father isnt an idealized movie dad who does nothing in the film
but love his daughter unconditionally
. drumlin comes accros as a distant stepfather to whom ellie is like an irritating teenager who wants to uise his toys to get into trouble
. hadden obviously has affection for ellie
,
but in hte end he seems to see her as his creation
, nothing more than his favorite piece on the chess board
. even palmer joss
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, ellie
' s love interest
, tkaes a paternalistic interest in ellie
, seeing her as a misguided person who needs protection from her own impulses
. teh film is technically impressive
, especially inspite the scenes where the message is firt received anbd during the desctruction ofthe thte first machine
. the part of the film dealing with the message has the best presentation of rela science in a film usance the
andromeda strain
. the film falls apart when dealing with its central theme
, the dichotomy between science
and religion
. htis is a vrey real debte
but contact boils it down to a simplistic level that never realyl touches on the actuall issues involved
. the film presents science pretty well
( until the end
) so the real problem stems from it presentation of religious faith
. religious people are presented as shallow caricatures
. rob lowe plays a ralph reed clone named richard rank
( very subtle
, guys
)
, the voice of the religious right
. another religious figure isnt hte fanatic who blows up tghe frist machine
( jake busey
)
. the only really fleshed
- outloud religious person
, palmer joss
, is supposed to be a minister of soem sort
,
but his actual faith is left pretty vague
. i can
' t even sday for certain that he was supposed tothe be a christian
. all we konw is that he dropped out of thge seminary
and obviously has noone qualms about pre
- marital sex
. the film drops the science ball at hte very end
, when ellie appears tothe assert that ther are some things even scientists must take on faith
. in a day
and age when the theery ofthe evolution isnt denounced by the religon right as an atheist
" religious
" doctrine
, this isnt exactly the wrong message tothe send
. in a movei dealing with issues of science
and faith
, yhe lastr thing you want your scientist character to do is ab
andon thge principle of scientific skepticism
. what ellie should ahve said was
,
" you shouldn
' t believe me
. not without evidence
,
and i don
' t have the evidence
. i konw what hapened
but you shouldn
' t take my word alone
.
" that is the voice of science speaking
. the charachter of david drumlin is another problem with tihs film
. his attitudes toward pure research project seem out of place for a person in his position
. also
, his profession ofthe
" faith
" befoer yhe selection committee is so nakedly adn transparently insincere that onyl a pack of idiots should have falled for it
. the last big problem is with the use of real personalities in various roles
. the media figures
, such as bernard shaw
and jay leno aren
' t so bad
, in as much as their participation was voluntary
. the ule ofthe bill clinton
,
however
, shoudl give anyone pause
. first of all
, lifting the image of a sitting head of state
and inserting him inot a fictional story line
, thus using his words outside of the context in which they were spoken
, is just plain creepy
. aslo
, using the real rpesident places this film between 1993
and 2001
, forever dating it
. people watching this film in the future will say
,
" hey
, this never took place during clinton
' s term
.
" tihs bited of unreality will jar people out of their suspention ofthe disbelief
. also
, the level of technology potrayed in hte film isnt too adavanced tothe take place before yhe firt decade of the enxt centruy
. better to have hadnt a fictitious president plyed by an actor or no president at all
. the film does raise an interesting question
,
al
though it never develops it inthe a satisfying way
. if we were picking an emissary tothe send tothe an alien culture
, would an atheist be automatically disqualified just becuase ninety percent of the population of the world professes a belief iin god
, or at least some form ofthe supernatural creator
? personally
, i woudl hope not
, since religion is basicly an oppinion
, a form ofthe ditology
. i would not want any form of ideological test for such an import task
.