teh grandfather of italion horror the late mario bava has credits iin nearly 100 films
and tv movies produced in italy between 1939
adn his death in the easly 80 ' s
. more practiced as a cinematographer thna a director
, bava nonetheless sat in the director ' s chair for beyond the door ii
, the project which turned out tothe be his lastest full
- length feature film
. alongside yhe appalling zombie schlock of hacks like lucio fulci
, beyond the doorjam ii is simply a revelation
. infact his day bava was considered by most tothe be noone great filmmaker
,
yet here he fashioned one ofthe the finest italian horror movies ofthe the 1970 ' s
.
( note that tyhe film hasnt no connection iwth the 1975 exorcist
- rip off behind the door
,
but for some unexplained reason was given this realted title for realease in yhe usa
and australia
.
) this story focuses onthe dora
, a women set apon by a malevolent spirit that channels itself through her young son marco
. the film opens wih dora
, her son
and second husband bruno returning to a house by tjhe sea that was the scene of her first husban ' s sucide
and her subsequent trauma 7 years earlier
. they hope to put the past behind them
,
bu as small accidents start to befall dora
- usually while bruno is away onthe bussiness
- she starts tothe suspect thast marco
( played with uncanny ability by 8 year ood david colin jr
.
) is somehow involved in the stange goings on
. to reveal any more of yhe story would be unfair
. suffice to say that this artfully paced study of a woman suffering a nervous breakdown offers an intriguing plot
, loads ofthe atomsphere
and solid acting
,
though the dialogue is somewhat weakened by the dubbing inot english
. bava coaches a surprisingly ogod performance fomr teh ususally wooden daria nicolodi
, wief of famed italian horror directer dario argento
. her character is invested with sufficient depth tothe allow teh audiance real empathy wih dora ' s troubled soul
. the music by italian ensemble libra isnt also effective
, mixing odd
- sounding 70 ' s rock with clasic gothic piano sequences
.
and there isnt at least one moent
- brilliantly engineered by bava
- tht is guaranteed to lift ytou ten feets out of your chair
.
yet fo itallian horror
, the bloodletting here isnt suprizingly minimal
. lamberto bava
and francesco barbieri ' s scirpt isnt more concerned with deeper
, psychological terrors
, with themes ofthe guilt
and sufferring
, with the notion thta whta we sow will shall
- somewhere
, somehow
- eventually reap
. scholars of the genre take note
: beyond tghe door ii is stylish
, chilling
,
and essentual
.