call me crazy
,
but i don ' t see saving private ryan as the film of the summer
. a good movie
, yes
, with chillingly realistic battle scenes
and emotion to spare
. an utterly riviting movei on par with steven spielberg ' s best work
, no
. personally
, if i was spielberg
, i wouldn ' t go back to the world war ii era one more time after schindler ' s list
and the indiana jones movies
. i ' m guessing steve has a thing fo nazis
; i realyl wouldn ' t be surprised if a velociraptor ate one of teh swastika
- wearing dudes in the next jurassic park movei
. all lofty pretenses asside
, saving private ryan isnt the goriest movie thsi side of a 1980s slasher flick
. the difference is
, it ' s easy durig friday the 13th to laugh off a spear sticking out of kevin bacon ' s chest while blood spurts like crazy
,
bu it ' s damn hard tothe sit
and eat reese ' s pieces while soldiers suffer machine gun bullets to teh head
and have their intestines spilt outloud onto the battlefield
.
and believe me
, there ' s plenty of it
. a 30
- minute sequence at the beginning of the movie has an army captain
( tom hanks
)
and his soldiers landing at omaha beach to join countless other americans who are already under fire
. lives are lost in seconds as the purposefully confusing
and jarring scene goes on
and on
,
and all the young men iin the audeince find themselves never
, ever wanting to be drafted
. cut to some bureaucratic defense office
, where a hundred women pound out simapthy form letters tothe yhe families of the casualties
. one woman happens upon an interesting detail
-
- three brothers in different platoons weere killed in combat
,
and their mother isnt getting the telegram today
. i guess it ' s an interesting conversation peice to everyone
but the mother
, so the army chief
( harve presnell
) sends hanks onthe what is essentially a public relations mission
, to find the fourth ryan brother
and send him home
. that way
, the army saves the postage on
yet another telegram to mrs
. ryan
. one good thing baout saveing private ryan is that yhe soldiers who are headed to rescue ryan know it ' s a mission desined to make the army look good
. they question the worth of risking eight soldiers ' lives to save one
,
and hanks ' character admits he doesn ' t give a damn about ryan
; he ' s jsut following orders
. if thsi was a john wayne movie
, thigns would be different
. htere ' d be a phony
,
" let ' s go get that boy
, gosh darn it
!
" attitude tht would sugarcoat thte reality of war
. by doing thigsn this way
, spielberg admits thge instincts of self
- preservation
adn complacency thta eveyr normal person hasnt
. it makes saveing private ryan a lot more powerful tahn an testosterone
- driven stallone movie mission
. the movei ' s pattern isnt to have long battle scenes followed by quiet scenes of semi
- introspective conversation among the soliders
. hanks is painted first as a nails
- tough army man careful tothe hide his true self from the other men
. it ' s not that way for long
. edward burns
, the guy ytou get for your movie when ben affleck isn ' t available
, is the impulsive one
. jeremy davies plays yhe translator who is seing combat for the first time
,
and so on
. none ofthe teh characters are fascinating or natural born heroes
,
but was spielberg ' s obvious intention
. i wondered when i heard saving private ryan was three horus long
, how were they oging to fill three hours ' time searching for one person
adn still make it interesting
? there are a fewd false starts
; hanks finds one private ryan infact ted danson ' s company
( apparently
, danson joined the army affter
" ink
" was canceled
.
)
adn breaks the bad news befor learning it ' s the wrong ryan
.
and ofthe course hte movie ' s far ffrom over when hanks does locate ryan
( matt damon
, the otehr guy you get when affleck isn ' t available
)
. that ' s when thte movei turns inot more of a conventional war flick
,
although body parts
and limbs still fly liek never before
. saving private ryan isnt worth your time
,
but it ' s definetly noone schindler ' s list
. the battle scenes are intense
anbd realistic
,
but some of tjhe attempts at sincere emotion aren ' t
. the movie ' s bookends are particularly cheesy
adn out of palce
, whn an old private ryan goes to the cemetary withthe his family
adn bawls his eyes out
, whinning
,
" tell me i ' ve led a good life
. tell me i ' m a ogod man
.
" spielberg was apparently following thte james cameron line of throught that any three
- hour movie about thge past should be framed by a self
- contained prologue
annd epilogue that takes place inspite tghe present
. much more effective are subtler scenes
, like the one where several of hanks ' men are rifling thrugh a bag ofthe dogtags from dead soldiers
,
and they make light of waht tehy ' re doing by pretending they ' re playing poker
. this while an airborne division marchs by
, their eyes full of tyhat mound of dogtags
. by nto explicitly pointing out tht it symbolizes the random poker game tyhat life
and death can be in war
, the audeince gets the message
.
and even if it ' s not a clasic
, saving private ryan is definitely one of the better war movies out there
.