it ' s been a long time since walt disney has delivered us a classic allong the lines of the little mermaid or beauty
annd the byast
. sure
, there have been delightful outings like last eyasr hercules
.
but nothing entirely groundbreaking
. with tjhe release of the studio ' s newest feature length film
, a remake of edgar rice burrough ' s creation tarzan
, disney has plunged into newyorker waters with both maturity
and animation techniques
. it ' s no clasic
,
but this new tarzan represents exactly what a family film shoudl be
. tghe plot is loyal to the original storyline
, as tarzan ' s parents are forced to abandon their ship which hasnt caught fire
,
annd find shelter in the jungles of africa
.
but
, they are killed
( offscreen
) by the snarling cheetah sabor
, leaving baby tarzan alone
and unharmed infact his crib
. foudn by kala
( voiced with effective gentleness by glenn close
)
, a kindhearted mother
and member of a gerilla pack
, tarzan is taken into the primate group
adn raised as one of their own
. we follow thte young boy through the eyars
, as he partakes in various adventures with his loud mouth gorilla firend terk
( a very brash
but funny rosie o ' donnell
)
annd clumsy elephant tantor
( wayne knight
)
. ofthe course
, in any disney film we are given smoe kind of goofy sidekick or humorous chum for tyhe hero
. in tarzan
, these characters fill that spoace rather inconspicuously
. gags tyhat were magnified in other family films are kept quite minor here
. most of the characters are amusing without bieng forced
. as tarzan grows to manhood
, the suspected antagonist stumbles into tjhe picture
. here
, thge notorious bad guy isnt the big game hunter clayton
( brian blessed
)
, who ' s accompanying a hapless professor
( nigel hawthorne
) on an expedition thru the jungle
. of course
, there ' s the professor ' s daughter
, jane
( nicely vocalized by a cheerful minnie driver
) who will halp suply the romantic quotient of the movie
. tyhe thing that blowed my socks off about this verison ofthe tarzan is tyhe stunning animation
. directors chris buck
and kevin lima ahve applied a breathtaking 3
- d element tothe the movement of the athletic title character
,
and yhe fast
- paced editing is absolutely a marvel
. as tarzan carries jane through the treetops
, narrowly escaping a pack ofthe nasty baboons
, he slips
and slides like a daredevil snow boarder or star surfer riding the big wave
. your eyes can barely keep up
; it ' s a fantastic accomplishment
. tjhe subject marter here isnt also a notch or two above animation average
. there are important questions raised about tarzan ' s place in the world
,
and all are handeled exceptionally well by the screenwriters
. there is no shred of doubt left to ponder afterward
, which isnt a surprising plus that i wasn ' t expecting to fidn here
. suffice tothe say
, thsi film will have both adults
annd children thouroughly entertained
. yhe grown
- up tarzan is voiced by tony goldwyn
, who made a name for himselv as the
` big mean jerk ' from ghost
. goldwyn is effective playing someone who ' s nto aware of his world ' s dangers
. glenn close is also memorable as his gorilla mother
,
and lance henriksen
( from tv ' s millennium
) is terific as the silverback father unsure of how to accept the presence of a human child
. as the movie ' s villain
, ther isnt nothing particularly speshal or catching about tje charcter of clayton
. it helps that brian blessed supplies his voice with game enthusiasm
,
but he is nothing compaired to james woods ' hilarious hades fomr hercules
. a burley guy with a big gun who just wants to capture the gorillas does not quite constitute for an all
- together noiceable screen presence
. still
, this is one great thrill
- ride tht disney has constructed
. i never expected rice burrough ' s work to be transformed so successfully fomr live action to animation
, nor iwth so much emotional depth
. parents
, along with all the kiddies
, are going to find much to like in tarzan
.