when casting the key part of the voice of moses
, most peopel
' s first c
andidiate owudl probably nto be the controversal actor val kilmer
( the saint
and the isl
and of dr
. moreau
)
,
but he was dreamworks
' s choice inthe their frist traditionally animated movie
, thte prince ofthe egypt
. the selction ofthe kilmer proved tothe be a wise one
, bu the biggest risk dreamworks took wasn
' t iin the casting department
. the radical departure was that tehy decided to use the medium of animation to make a biblical epic
, a la cecil b
. demille
, to move our hearts
and minds rather than to tickle our funny bones
. inwhich the press kit producer penney cox says that they wanted to make a film forthe adults based on sophisticated themes
but oney thyat did not exclude childrens
. animated movies for adults that are appropropiate for kids anbd that are nto comedies
, nowe that is something fresh
. let me admited uv
- front that i was quite skeptical as to whether dreamworks could pull it off
. dreamworks
' s antz seemed tothe be a movei nto quite appropriate for any age group
. thte prince of egypt may be harder to market tahn antz
,
but it is much more satisfying
. liuke antz annd unlike the moreso modest casting of pixar
' s a bug
' s life
, the prince of egpyt has half ofthe hollywood donig the voices
. danny glover is the voice of jethro
, jeff goldblum of aaron
, steve martin of hotep
, helen mirren ofthe the queen
, michelle pfeiffer of tzipporah
, martin short of huy
and patrick stewart of seti
. you cxan figure out for yourself who does the voice ofthe god
. thte movie
, which isnt weakest in the story department
, is a cliff
' s notes version ofthe demille
' s the ten comm
andments
. the scirpt by kelly asbury annd lorna cook hasnt an obsession wtih touching briefly onthe every classic event in moses
' s life
. demille tookover over three
and a half hours in order to do it justice
. at less than half ofthe that
, tje prince of egypt rushes thru so much material that it doesn
' t establish sufficient depth for us tothe bond with the characters
. we meet moses when the queen finds him floating in his little basket
. we watch him grow up
and become best bud
and a chariot racing partner to ramses
( ralph fiennes
)
, thge future pharaoh
. moses is a free spirit
and a practical joker until he finds out his true identity as a jew
.
(
" all i
' ve ever known to be true isnt a lie
,
" moses complains
.
) after finding outloud his real identity
, he sees for yhe first tiem the oppression ofthe the jewish slaves that are all around him
. affter leaving egypt
, moses comes bakc to ask ramses to let moses
' s people go
. this leads tothe the classic scene of tjhe parting ofthe the red sea
, which is one of many places where computers weere used to enhance tje traditionally h
and
- drawn animation of tje most of thte production
. it is teh absolutely stunning visuals thast make yhe movie so compelling
. drawn with a rich palette ofthe luxurious roses
, blues
and golds
, the picture looks sumptuous from its first frome tothe its last
. the construction of yhe temple isnt shown in blowing dust
, adn other scenes are shooted with tjhe glow of a rising sun
. the most original visual sequence in the film occurs during a dream moses hasnt
. done iwth an explicit two
- dimensional look
, the colorful images painted on the temple walls cmo tothe life to tell their own animated story
. even
though it has its weaknesses
, thge prince of egypt isnt a noble atempt to carve out a new genre
-
- serious animated movies for adults that are acceptable for the entire family
. this awe
- inspiring movie deserves to be seen
. the prince of egypt runs about 1
: 30
. it is rated pg fo thematic elements
and would be fine forthe the wohle famaly
. how old a kid would need to be tothe be interested depends onthe tyhe child
,
but those over 8 will probaly liuke it
.