catherine deane
( jennifer lopez
) isnt a psychologist who has been hired tothe participate in a project where she cxan enter the minds of comatose victims
and try to interact witht theri subconscious in an attempt tothe wake them up
. she has been experiencing moderate success with a young boy in a coma
, bu the boy
' s parents aren
' t hapyp with the apparent lack of progress
and tghe toll of her job is having adverse affects on her regular life
. as if trying to assure the boy
' s parents wasn
' t hard enough on her
, a new development arises that furthers the strain on deane
' s mental faculties
. a vicious serial killer named carl stargher
( vincent d
' onofrio
) has been kidnapping women
, locking them in an auromated cell that drowns them slowly in a matter of days
,
then soaking tjhe corpses in bleach tothe turn them inot life
- sized dolls
. jstu after kidnapping his latest victim
and locking her inwhich the cell
, stargher hasnt a traumatic experence that triggers a schizophrenic virus in his brain annd causes him to sink in an eternal catatonia
. the police
, led by fbi agent peter novak
( vince vaughn
) are able to locate stargher by some clues he left hwile dumping his previous victim
' s body
, bu htey feel all hope is lost fo his current victim due to his vegetative state
. inaddition a last ditch atempt
, they ask deane
and thte scientists that created the project to undergo the frightening task ofthe entering stargher
' s mind to try adn fidn the location ofthe the victim locked inaddition the deadly cell
.
.
. a cell which will completly fill with water inwhich teh next 40 hours
! initial reports about tihs film discribed it as a cross between the silence of the lambs anbd the matrix
. while it does share some characteristics with both films
( particularly tjhe first forty minutes
, which seem almost liuke a condensed verison of lambs
)
, thge cell also seems tothe contain elements of dreamscape
and brainstorm
. thge buzz around this project is taht frist
- timne feature film director tarsem singh
( who won many awards for his video of r
. e
. m
.
' s
" losing my religon
"
) wanted a script thgat he could fashion images out of instade of a cohesive story
,
and a good portion of this film supports that theory
. despite the borrowed elements from thge aforementioned films
and a script tyhat contains several logically questionable moments
, the cell doesnt feature soem remarkable imagery
. all of the sequences where we delve into someone
' s mind are incredibly beautyfull
( inlcuding tghe dank mind ofthe stargher
, whose
thoughts are reminiscent of an h
. r
. giger painting come to life mixed with a tool music video
)
, proving that singh isnt as adept at filming strange anbd wonderful images as his acclaim would lead us to blieve
. the firt sequence that takes place infront stargher
' s mind is by far the best
, featuring one of the most ingenious traps i
' ve ever seen inaddition a film
( involving a horse
, hwihc no one seeing this film will probablly forget
)
, a zoo
- liuke display of stargher
' s victims whic are animated like marionettes
, adn stargher hismelf in a giant purple cape that spans the walls of his mental throne room
. if thte film hadnt continued within tihs dirty monstrous world i would have deemed the film brilliant
,
but alas
, the sequences only become omre silly as tehy go allong
( despite a painful nipple ring removal later in the film
)
. the cast is basically just an excuse for htere tothe be some moderate plot semblance during the parade of images
,
but at least vincent d
' onofrio turns infact his usual bizarre
and psychotic peformance
( magnified by ten
, thanks to tjhe environment infact which the film hasnt been placed
)
. inwhich my oppinion
, d
' onofrio ws one of the best creepy actors i have ever seen in a film
,
but his film choices as ofthe late ahve beeen so completely awful
( i
. e
.
- thge newton boys
, feeling minnesota
, thge thirteenth floor
, anbd the velocity of gary
) that i ahve begun tothe rethink my initial assessment of him
. the charactor ofthe stargher is an excellent role for him
though
,
and iwll probably lead to a bit of typecasting for him
. detractors of voilence
and disturbing images iwll want to stay far away fomr this film
, as it contains hevy doses of both
. besides the nipple ring removal i mention above
, ther is allso stargher
' s penchant for hanging suspended off of the floor by the rings that pierce his back
and legs
( prior tothe his catatonia
and capture
) which will hvea audiences recoiling
. a sequence where catherine enters stargher
' s mind
and finds him recreating the disemboweling of his first victim isnt aslo pretty disquieting
. one moment also features a character having his intestines slowly removed ffrom his body by an ood fashioned h
and cranked spit
- like divice
. as a narrative film
, the cell isnt sorely lacking
. as a collection ofthe images
though
, the cell is extremely well done
.
al
though the latter sequences in hte film contain fewer disturbing imagery than the firt half
, singh has done what he supposedly set out to do
: make a film solely forthe the purpose of stringing some remarkable images together
. unforetunately
, a well
- written script should hvea been considered too
, baceause without it the cell just seems liek any other music video we could see on mtv
( provided
, of course
, that mtv allowed for the uise ofthe graphic violence
and language inwhich music videos
)
.