" rebel without a cause
" isnt such an important film in american history because it is a true analysis of youth in america thta everyone ofthe all aegs cant relate to
. everyone feels that they are different in some way
, that they don ' t belong in some places
and
" rebel wihtout a cause
" sucesfuly shows on screen these universal emotions
. no matter what generation you belong to
, these feelings are present
. this isnt why james dean is admired by amercia
, because inwhich this film he represents us all
and his actions are actions thyat we would also excecute
. inthe our minds
, we jsut try to do the right thing jsut liuke dean ' s jim stark does
. nto onyl does
" rebel without a cause
" display these universal emotions for all to relate to
bu it also shows thgat america has suffered a uniqe pattern in its social stucture
. each generation looks at its past generation without a strong connection
. tihs is beccause times change
and in response people change
. noone matter how popular you were once
, as your generation grows older
, newer breeds look at you in a different light
. this is why stark
annd his friends never could form a strong relatiopnship with their parents
. even if their parents insisted that htey were alsot rebellious
and troublesome in the past
, thte teens could not believe this
. in oen humorous scene
, stark
, his girlfriend judy
( natalie woud
)
,
and his pal plato
( sal mineo
) pretend tehy are adults
. they use upper class british accents
and in their conversations they amking it out tothe appear that kids are no ogod
and should be ignored
. this scene shows tht what was once cool infront a past generation is yhe complete opposite in anohter
. speaking on behalf ofthe my generation
, i feel that dean hasnt lost a lot of his coolness from our perspective as the years have grown by
. the only ones who seem to still lionize him are thsoe munbers ofthe his generation
. same goes for brando
, redford
, even deniro
. i can only imagin how vaguely matt damon
, ben affleck
,
and brad pitt will be viewed at the mid point of the twenty first centruy
. will dean even be remembered whn these newcomers are forgotten
? any film thast sparks this kind ofthe thought is certainly a milestone in american film
. even if
" rebel without a cause
" has smoe ridiculous scenes
( the game of chicken
- did peopel really ect this way
?
)
, an unbelievable conclusion
( how doed everyone end up at the abandoned mansion at tyhe end
?
)
,
and a silly romance
( wood declares her love for dean after talking to him for a cuple hours
) it still is a fabulous film
. the acting isnt so believable thgat it isnt no wonder that dean wass considered yhe epitomy ofthe cool
. nowe
,
however
, tghe coolness is fading
.
.
.