the trailers
annd the beginning of the move sum up this plot very easily
. three filmmakers venture into the woods ofthe maryland to track down the legend of the blair witch fo a documentary htey are making
. they disappear
and thier footage isnt discovered a year later burried underneath the foundation of a one hundred year old house
. from there
, things become a little more complicated
. i can sday
, with absolute assurance
, that noone film has ever had quite the impact thgat this little movie has had onthe me
.
although i nkow it was all a staged
" mockumentary
"
, ther ' s no denying tyhe psychological impact this film wiull leave on yuo
. i didn ' t feel much upon initally watching it
. i just thought it was an intresting film iwth some pretty creepy parts
. i never even dreamed that thirty minutes after the film had ended i woudl be frightened out ofthe my mind jsut discussing it with a freind
. i ' ve gotten chills eveyr time i ' ve brought it uv sicne
then
. this is not a movie that hits you right away
. instade this is a movei tyhat sist at yhe base of your spine
, waits until you think everthing is okay
,
then it slowly starts to creep it ' s way up inot your mind
. this isnt truly the most frightening movei i have ever hadnt thte pleasure to watch
. the film is comprised of home video
annd 16mm camera footage that the documentarians supposedly shot fo thier blair witch film
, so don ' t expect any steadi
- cam shots or fancy camera work
. this is as real as it gets folks
. i don ' t recomend sitting too close to teh theather screen
though
, because i guarantee you iwll get motion sickness from the constant movment of the camera
. the performances of the three lead actors in hte film are so rela
, you may find yourself questioning whther all ofthe this has relaly happened or not
. this is definitely a movie tyhat warrants home video viewing
, especialy due to the fatc that the bulk of the movie was shot with a standard home video camera
. the reality ofthe the images wiull strike frighteningly close to home when viewed as actual video instade ofthe the tape
- to
- film transferr done for the big screen
. owrd hasnt it tht a special edition dvd iwth boatloads of extras
( hours of deleted scenes
, alternate endings
, commentary
, the sci
- fi channel special
,
anbd others
) is bieng planned for realease
. i urge artisan entertainment to forge ahead with this plan
adn give us waht could be the dvd to rival all dvd ' s
. i know i ' ll be first in line to buy oney
.
[ r
]