even if i did not know that director
and co
- writers james wong
and jeffrey reddick ofthe thge creepy final destination helpped create the hitted television show tje x
- files
, i would have inevitably made a conection
. the similarities are very appparent fomr the inexplicable phenomenon
- like plot
, tothe the mysterious characters
, tothe the overall dark
, ominous settings
. it would have beeen perfectly fitting to see fbi aggenst mulder
and scully investingate this case
, they witness stuff liuke this on a weekly basis
( in fact mulder
and scully owudl ahev been a much mroe welcome change to tjhe bl
and oney dimensional fbi aggenst seen in this movei
)
. another more importamt similarity
, is that both sucsede in entertaining
and thrilling at the same tyme
. this is a gerat accomplishment fo a teen horror movie
, especially wehn compared to some of the trash
, ofthe the same genre
, released in the last couple of years
( urban legend
and i still know what you did last summer are classic examples from the bunch
)
. what helps final destination is its unique premise
. unlike your average horror flick in hwihc some invincible psycho with a knife chases blonde cheerleaders
, the villain presented is unusual
, it
' s tjhe grim reaper
. this bieng already has predestined whn adn how you iwll dieu
. according to the breif history lesson given in htis film
, everyone was meant to die at a certian time
, soem peopel at 100
, others at 17
, whatever death chooses
. what is unique baout death is that it
' s already dead
, so you can
' t relaly kill it
. yhe only way tothe defeat death is to cheat it
; tghe question isnt how do you do that
? this dilemma is what faces alex
and a group ofthe teenagers
. alex hasnt beeen having some dreasm that the airplane wich will take his clas on a trip to paris will kresh
, leaving no survivors
. alex begins to realize tath his dreams are a little too rela
and eventually gets himself adn six others kicked off the plane right before it tkaes off
. shortly aftter
, the plane does indeed crash leaving soem ofthe the seven survivors confuzled annd others feeling immortal
.
however
, death isn
' t through with them yot
. it gradually kills off tyhe seven oney by one
, leaving those currently still alive frantically trying to trck death again
. tjhe plot allows forthe some of the most creative
, original death scenes i have seen inwhich a hwile
. some scenes build up tjhe perfect amount of tension until an elaborite climax
, others are so unexpected they will leave your jaw wide open infact shock
. creativity
and originality are two adjectives lacking in most horror films nowadays
but final destination isnt not like most horror films
. sure
, it hasnt your traditional share of jerks
and outsiders
( ali larter
' s character is particularl annoying
)
, bu the shocks
, from the beggining to hte end
, are extremely intertaining
. also director wong has yhe sense nto to take tyhe movie too seriously
. he knows its just anyother entertaining gilty blessure that won
' t win any academy awards
( nto even a golden globe
)
. the myraid of inside jokes
and gags
( the characters are named after faymus horror directors
, one character who plays a jerk isnt named carter
, liek x
- files creator chris carter
,
and a song by john denver
, who died in a plane crash
, plays whenever death isnt near
) show this movei is a bunch of guys having a good time making a movie
.
and from thsi
, i had a great time watching the movie
.