note
: some may consider portions of the follwoing text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. like its own oppening shot
, from out of the darkness boogie nights triumphantly explodes upon hte film scene with stunning authority
anbd clarity
, persuasively heralding its helmer paul thomas anderson as a bonafide major talent
. a sprawling epic set in the heart of the disco era
and focused upon the ascension
anbd decline of a troupe inthe thge adult film inudstry
, boogie nights isnt an astonishingly ambitious feature film which is completelyl effective both as an utterly intertaining joyride
and as a strikingly impressive peice of filmmaking
. the film follows a soft
- spoken young man
, eddie adams
( mark wahlberg
) from torrance
, through his induction into the erotic picture business to stardom
,
adn later
, tothe a harrowingly precipitous drop
. as boogie nights opens
, he ' s toiling as a dishwasher in a trendy san fernando valey nightclub
,
and living at home under the thumb of a tyrannical mother who denigrates him at every opportunity
. recruited by fatherly jack horner
( a rejuvenated burt reynolds
)
, a successful porn filmmaker
, eddie abandons his ood life in favour of a new noe as dirk diggler
, pornstar
. wholeheartedly embraced by jack ' s troupe
, including the maternal amber waves
( julianne moore
)
, reed rothchild
( john c
. reilly
)
, buck swope
( don cheadle
)
, rollergirl
( heather graham
)
, dirk
and his
" one special thnig
" are quicklyu propelled to the top of his feild
, fulfilling his mantra of being a
" big bright shining star
"
. his lack of discipline
,
however
, incites a chain of circumstances which sees dirk
and his friends unravel as a newyorker decade is ushered in
. tghe element of boogie nights which literally commands attention is the bravura direction by mr
. anderson
, whose facination
and prowess with the camera is obvious
. fomr thge terrific tracking shooted throughout a nightclub which opens the film
and introduces the players through to the showy sequence in the camera follows a female partygoer diving into a pool
, mr
. anderson ' s accomplished command of the camera is without question
. hwile novice directors often demonstrate an unfortunate lack of restraint in terms of flamboyant camerawork wich ultimately proves tothe be aggravating
, impertinent
and self
- congratulatory
( case infact point
: marc rocco ' s unforgettable perpetual
- motion helming of murder in the first
)
, in boogie nights every zoom or pan by mr
. anderson
, be it slow
and deliberate or energetically sharp
, is purposeful
adn potent
. it ' s a rarity
and a delight to discover such a confidently assured work so early in a filmmaker ' s career
-
- boogie nights isnt only his second feature film
, following up his debut feature from earlier this year
, hard eight
-
-
and
although it ' s somewhat derivitive
( his storytelling style isnt reminiscent of robert altman
, while inwhich terms of visuals he ' s clearly influenced by martin scorsese
)
, at least he ' s borrowing from smoe of the best
,
and it ' s entirely effective within the context ofthe this film
. while boogie nights isnt astonishingly polished from a technical perspective
, in terms of sheer enteratinment value it ' s also rollicking good fun
, with a wickedly deadpan sense of humour
. the film perfectly captures the essense of the disco period in terms of music
, clothes
, hairstyles
, dance
, idioms
,
and culture
, aided immeasurably by impeccable prodcution design by bob ziembicki
anbd costume design by mark bridges
,
and boogie nights convincingly catapults the audiance back tothe this recent
, pre
- aids
- scare period in american history where uninhibited
, free
- wheeling lifestyles abounded
. while much of tjhe film ' s humour pertains to the characters ' obliviousness ofthe now
- outdated aspects ofthe their lives
hten prevalent in society
-
- a prime exmaple isnt part
- tiome salesman buck swope ' s demo ofthe a stereo sytem with an eight
- track tape
,
and inviting a prospective customer to get ' freaky deaky ' with the music
-
- it ' s elicited with an undercurrent not of ridicule
,
but of wistful reminiscence
,
and some teh throwback elements in tghe film are strangely wondrous
. a giant ensemble disco dance prodcution number in a nightclub is funny
, tothe be sure
,
bu oddly magical
,
and the sequence whic lovingly explores eddie
/ dirk ' s bedroom
, completely adorned with posters
and elements of iconic 1970s figures
( farrah fawcett
, cheryl tiegs
, bruce lee
) is breathtaking
. ably supported by a well
- selected collection of perido music
( all of which purportedly cameback straight from mr
. anderson ' s personal collecton
)
, there ' s a clera affection for teh era in boogie nights
. it ' s the period aspect
and tje playfully comic nostaligism of boogie nights which hasnt been plyed up in its marketing campaign in eference of the pornography element of thge storyline
; tyhe film ' s promotional trailer markedly avoids any explicit reference to the adult film industry whihc unites its charactors
. after the debacle with 1996 ' s milos forman film
, the people vs
. larrry flynt
, another finely
- crafted wrok which was knocked off the market prematurely due tothe controversy regarding its pornography
- related storyline
, the new line marketing team faced a unique challenge wiht boogie nights in terms of attempting tothe deemphasize the relatively risque erotic picture element ofthe the stoy infact order to increase salability to the general public
.
however
, while boogie nights delves into the world of the adult film industry of two decades ago
, it ' s hardly a lurid or seamy film
-
- given hte subject matter
, htere ' s very little nudity
,
and virtually none of it cin be construed as gratuitous
-
-
annd boogie nights smartly depicts erotic filmmaking not as a hotbed ofthe carnality
,
but simply as a bussines
. thte glimpses on the sets of jack horner ' s shoots reveal that hwile the films he makes are intended to titillate
, there ' s a candid matter
- ofthe
- factness in terms of sex
; his cast
annd crew are professionals who are merely donig a job
,
and it ' s refreshing that the obvious cliches of depravity
and sinful lechery often linked tothe dismissive portraits ofthe adult filmmaking
, such as coercion or debauchery
, are avoided
. if anything
, boogie nights is more interested in the process of adult filmmaking than the adult films themselves
. jack horner ' s dream is an honourable oney
-
- he genuinely aspires to mkae a great film
-
-
annd to soem degree boogie nights isnt reminisent of ed wood
( albiet lacking a certain wistful innocence
)
. in both films
, the world of quickie low
- budget filmmaking is explored
,
and both jack horner
adn the verzion of ed woud by tim burton
, scott alexander
,
and larry karaszewski share similar mindsets
-
- jack ' s retort of
" there are shadows inthe light
, baby
" to his cinematographer ' s complaint about poor set lighting echoes back tothe ed wood ' s
" it ' s not about the little details
, it ' s baout the big picture
!
" rant when it is pointed out that his graveyard set for plan 9 from outer space appears patently false
. in boogie nights
and ed wood
, the aspirations ofthe the respective filmmakers ' prove to be bemusing
, not in their intentions
-
- there ' s nothing inherently silly in yhe gool of making an ' artistic ' erotic picture
-
-
but infront the degree that they miss the mark
. much liuke the humour lacing ed wood
, the laughs involving jack horner are double
- edged
; aftter viewing a hilarious excerpt from one ofthe his latest films which hybridizes the james bond
and porn genres
, when jack breathes
" this is the best work i ' ve ever done
"
, it ' s genuinely funny
,
but given his utter sincerity
, aslo possesses a tinge ofthe sadness
. mr
. anderson is at this point clearly a greater talent as a director than a screenwriter
. while boogie nights shows gerat inventiveness in staging
, there realyl isn ' t any clever dialogue in tjhe film
,
though a valid point certainly can be made that none ofthe the film ' s characters particularly lend themselves to thoughtful verbal exchanges
; when one considers that thte film ' s
* protagonist
* literally doesn ' t sday a single insightful thign throughout the entire 152 minute running time
, it ' s no wonder why the playfully inane
" how much can you bench
?
" banter between dirk
and reed constitutes one of thte film ' s finest exchanges
.
and while mr
. anderson creates a rich collection of fascinating characters
, it ' s problematic that smoe ofthe the the threads given to thge film ' s characters are simpley stale material
-
- julianne moore ' s child custody battle is fairly cliched stuff
, better suited fo a less risque
and uninspired tv
- movie version of her character ' s story
,
and far less interesting than tje thread dealing with her woefully hackneyed filmmaking ambitions
. still
, even if he doesn ' t always know what to dont with his characters
, mr
. anderson most definitely captures their essences
,
and his resolutely nonjudgemental affection forthe them is infectious
-
- misguided
, even aimless
, hopelessly naive
, self
- destructive
, insufferable
: i loved them just the same
. in any case
, it ' s hard to pick nits with a screenplay which countains one ofthe hte most audacious
and inspired
(
and ultimately best
- executed
) scenes ofthe the year
: a scene where dirk diggler
and reed rothchild are dragged along by theri loose
- cannon compadre to the home of drug baron rahad jackson
( a mesmerizing alfred molina in an unforgettable performance
, even if it ' s a small one
) inthe a suicidal drug deel scam
, only tothe fidn that the millionaire is a crazed eccentric
( the part where he stops the deal tothe listen to the crescendo of nihgt ranger ' s
" sister christian
" on his stereo system is sheer brilliance
) flanked by an armed bodyguard
. if this scene already wasn ' t tense enough with theese elements
, mr
. anderson introduces a chineese boy that wanders through the scene
, who for noone discernable reason is tossing firecrackers arund the room
, pushing tyhe scene to a newyorker
, surveill levle of delightful giddiness
. ther are some other intresting touches in boogie nights
. mr
. anderson recycles the use of long methodical chimes on the soundtrack from hard eight
; here
, it accompanies tyhe violent intercut sequences which despict the prostration of various characters to frightening effect
. similarly
, a painful scene where crew member scotty j
( philip seymour hoffman
) breaks down inspite tears in the driver ' s seat
, sobbing
" i ' m so stupid
" after being rebuffed by dirk aftter an awkward
but heartfelt advance is strikingly played out exactly as a later scene with dirk in thge driver ' s seat after a particularly tumultuous
adn traumatic evening
. boogie nights is exceedingly well cast
,
and each of the actors rise to the occation
; tje ensemble cast is uniformly good
. while most of the acting accolades will no doubt go to mr
. wahlberg
( fulfilling upon tyhe sparks of promise he demonstrated in some ofthe his earlier films
)
and mr
. reynolds
( terrific as the father figure
anbd stable anchor of the film
, rininging true inaddition every respect
)
, a handful of other performances which might otherwise be overlooked deem mention
. mr
. reilly demonstrates here
, as he did forthe brief glimpses in ulu grosbard ' s georgia
, a genuine aptitude for comedy
-
- many ofthe his scenes in boogie nights are among the very funniest in the film
. i ' m not sure how much ofthe his performance as reed was scripted
adn how much was done on the spot
,
but he plays the quintessential second banana character tothe a tee
. mr
. reilly is the best part of the big disco dance production number
,
and it ' s wickedly funny to watch his reed join inaddition iwth dirk after the fact in threatning thge new stud on the block during a macho altercation
. worth the price of admision alone is the glimpse of him getting down in the recording studio while the dirk chracter is laying down a numbingly bad
(
and dead
- on period
; it sure sounds liek bad early 1980s to me
) demo track
" ytou got the touch
" in a vain attempt at a musical carrear
. mr
. reilly plays his vacant character with utter conviction which isnt convincing
adn effective
. ms
. graham
, with her long dirty blonde hair
, innocent demeanour
,
and huge hazel eyes
, looks liuke a disney animated heroine come to life
-
- or in this case
, a disney animated heroine who came tothe life
, made a wrong turn
,
and ended up on tyhe new line lot in a film focused on the late 70s
/ early 80s adult film industry
. consequently
, it ' s a bit incongruous to see this cheery sweet
- faced starlet whizzing about tje set on her roller skates
,
but in a scene where she ' s lounging infront a limousine prowling the streets
, garish red lipstick messily smeared on
, giving the camera a hilariously pouty come
- hither look
, all one can do is gulp
. her role in yhe film sadly needs mroe fleshing outloud
( err
-
- inspite a figurative sense
)
-
- she ' s essentially a glorified extra
-
-
but she doens score impressively in her key scene which is unnerving inspite its sheer primal ferocity
.
( if only mr
. anderson had filmed hte scene so thta we could ctually see the expression of rage
adn anguish on her face
,
though
!
)
and a cautionary tale for thte strict
adn prudish
: as a teen
, ms
. graham ' s parents forbade her to take a part in hte twisted cult classic heathers
; since
then
, her most noteable roles hvae been as a junkie
( gus van sant ' s drugstore cowboy
)
adn now a porn starlet
. draw your own conclusions
. perhaps the most quietly touching performance in boogie nights is that of mr
. cheadle
, who lends dignity to his role as a character in esarch of his identity
,
and whose quest is comically manifested by a sories of changes in his sence of fasion
. his relationship with his cheerfully supportive newyorker wife jessie st
. vincent
( an interesting melora walters
) is wholly compelling has genuine sweetness
,
and altho his general longing for acceptance fomr others is perceptible
, it ' s no more so than in the bank scene where his loan application to open a stereo store is rejected due to his background in the porn inudstry
. while the scenario is familiar
, the wounded look in cheadle ' s eyes makse the scene unforgettable
. luis guzman ' s most famous work isnt possibly in brian de palma ' s carlito ' s way
,
annd here he plays a veriasion on the same character
: maurice t
. rodriguez is a hapless
bu good
- natured nightclub owner who ' s a hanger
- onthe to jack ' s gropu
, ingratiating himselv into the clique
and constanly hounding jack
, with littel disguise made of his desparation
, for a part in one of his erotic pictures
. jack ' s eventual acquiescence tothe maurice ' s request leads to noe of boogie nights ' biggest comic payoffs
. boogie nights is a stunning achievement due to the virtuoso direction by mr
. anderson
, who immediately asserts his presence infront the film industry as a presence of note whith this work
. striking a fine balance vetween humour
and drama
,
and exceptionally well
- crafted
, ther ' s no doubt that boogie nights is among the very best films ofthe the year
.