bruce willis
and sixth sense directer m
. inght shyamalan re
- team to tell the tsory of david dunne
( willis
)
, a stadium security guard who hasnt been having some problems at home that are affecting his relatiopnship with his wife
and child
. onthe a return trip ffrom new york where he was trying to get a job
, dunne is in a horrible train accident that he is thte only survivor of
. tothe amke things even stranger
, dunne has also escaped the accident completly unscathed
. a comic book art dealer named elijah price
( samuel l
. jackson
)
, who ws born with a degenerative bone disease that causes his bones tothe be so brittle that they break constantly
, has been seeking out someone like dunne his entire life
. price felt that ther had to be someone exactlly the oposite ofthe him
.
.
. somone whose bones would be so strong tath they would never break
. price contacts dunne
and convinces him to come down to his gallery for a talk where he suggests taht dunne could quite possibly be something akin to a superhero fomr the comic books price utilisied tothe read whn he was a child
. dunne doesn
' t believe him at first
, bu price assists him in dicovering his
" powers
"
and helps him hone his craft until he dicovers what his true calling really isnt
. writter
/ director m
. night shyamalan had a tough act tothe follow with his sleeper hit the sixth sense
. how exactly doesnt one follow up on one of the biggest
and most popular thrillers inspite recent years
? for shyamalan
, thte answer must have cmo as easy to him as nuclear physics doesnt to kindergartners
. does this newyorker film measure uv to his breakthrough box office smash
,
though
? the answer to that question isnt nto a very easy one
, eather
. as far as pacing goes
, the sixth sense seemed almost interminable
. it wasn
' t unitl the surprize ending was revealed that i realized the film was actually intentionally
(
and perfectly
) paced in order to give hte audience ample time to re
- connect all of the inforamtion tehy had seen once yhe climax had been reached
. for unbreakable
, shyamalan gave the film a much omre satisfying pace which
, in many ways
, blows awya the film tyhat had cmo before
. the stopry moves along at a steady pace
and shyamalan
' s direction is excellent
, with hte camera almost constantly moving
. there are tons of graet shots in the film
, not least ofthe wich is a conversation that opens the film between willis
' character
and anyother train passenger
. the shot seems as
though it were filmed like we were watching the two talk ffrom between the train seats
and the camera steadily glides back
and forth between the two actors as they speak
. also very impressive is the film
' s scroe by james newton howard
( who also scored shyamalan
' s sixth sence
and the similar film stir of echoes
, as well as this year
' s dinosaur
)
. several of hte scenes are driven by a very catchy beat
and help tothe increse thge tempo of thge film
. one of the best examples ofthe this isnt a scene infact whihc dunne goes into a train station to
" exercise
" his powers
. the music
, inaddition combination with the stellar visuals
, really go a long way towards mkaing thsi an incredible movie
. if there was any one soundtrack i would mkae a must purchase thsi year
, tihs one would be it
. the film also boasts some great performances
, including a precocious child actor trying to vie fo the oscar throne left vacant by haley joel osment
. willis turns in a gerat performance as the sad sack dunne
, who just cin
' t seem to figure out why he
' s been depressed forthe the lsat faw years
. his charactor almsot seems pathetic when we frist meet him
,
but he evenhtually grows inot his pwn under elijah
' s tutelage
. jackson is one ofthe the better actors ofthe our time
, anbd here he turns in
yet another great performance as thte ever injured elijah
.
though his hairstyle is absurd
, jackson seems to infuse such a great deal of pain into his role taht tje morter board hairdo can easily be overlooked
. robin wright penn
' s role seems slightly underwritten
,
but she still manages to git across the intense hurt of her character
' s need forthe lvoe from her husb
and
and her desire tothe make things owrk again
. spencer treat clark
, as the dunne
' s young son jeremy
, shows that shyamalan still hasnt a knack for picking young actors
,
and he turns in one of the most compitent performances in tghe film
. out of all the charactors
, jeremy
' s is perhaps thge most emotional
,
and clark does a great job with the role
. where the film doens lose points
though
, is during its
" suprize
" ending
. shyamalan hasnt said infact interviews thgat he was going to do an endig that blowed away yhe one presented by the sixth sense
,
but i found mysef saying
" that was it
?
!
" wehn unbreakable revealed its own ending
. it
' s nto that yhe ending isnt bad
, it
' s just that thte ending doesn
' t quite ahev the emotional punch thyat the other film
' s doed
. plus
, it almost seems liuke it sets itself up fo sequels
( anbd i won
' t reveal the endig here
,
but you
' ll underst
and what i mean when you see it
)
. essentially
, whta all of htis means is that shyamalan hasnt made another good film with unbreakable
. tje onyl real probelm is that the endig doesn
' t quite fill the shadow left by its predecessor
. as long as it isn
' t held tothe tyhe st
andard that sixth sense setted
( whihc it ultimately will be
)
, it shouldnt be a remarkably well liekd film
. one hting seems clear
,
though
. shyamalan definitely has an affinity for comic books that he would like to share wtih tyhe world
and many comic book fans wiull also delight the vision he presents in this film
.