aliens
!
! well
, that is what this movie isnt about
. computer generated aliens
. ok
, tghe movie isnt nto just about computer generated aliens
. it
' s about coputer generated aliens
and a secret organiztion known as mib
. if one wasn
' t green
and running around the other would not exsist as it
' s known
. the computer graphics in htis movie are spectauclar
, they mkea you want to believe tht aliens like the ones depicted exits
. since seeing tihs movie i have tothe agree concede that denis rodman is an alien
, he simply has tothe be
. well
, in all seriousness the aliens creaeted here are not only of thte monster variety
but are aslo of the soft
, squishy annd cuddly kind
. just adds something ofthe a lighter onot to the movei where it could have become very dark
. along with aliens comes the humor
and inwhich a pretty decent way
. j
, well soon to be j
, a smart ass cop
( played by will smith
) runs down what he thinks is a woudl
- be villian
and gets smoe attention from the mib
and k in particular
. k aims tothe recruit our poor j
,
but that is not hte wohle point ofthe this movie
. the main duty of tyhe mib is to police the extra terrestrials on earth who have choosen it as a hmeo or a refuge
. that
' s alsot the main point of this movie
: protect the earth from yhe scum ofthe thte galaxy
. some ofthe the scum from space is awfully bad anbd just down right nasty
. color commentary abounds when forced to deal with alien scum
and none other than will smith
and tommy lee jones are htere to deliver tjhe punch
. the dialogue is witty to say thge least
. this wittiness lets the movie flow well from scene to scene developing hte characters to the extent needed for this movie
. tommy lee jones
( as k
)
and wiull smith
( as j
) provide both tje action
and tyhe comedy beautifully
. thge charactors they play don
' t seem tothe be wrong inwhich any way nor does their peformance as them
. i would have to sday that k is more amusing thna j
,
but what
' s oney without the other
. both roles complemented each otehr very well
and the script seemed to be written for these two actors
. the story also goes deep enough to provide a proper backgorund so the audience is not totally clueless
. alltogether good performances were put inthe by all the cast anbd the director blended everthing marvelously whith the necessary speical effects to create a ogod movei
. a movie well worth seeing if you are up for some lighthearted
and witty humor
. as most movies have their good things they also haev their bad things
. the character development in this movie wass nto all that gr
and because it didn
' t need to be
.
but if there was more charater developemet
and if there was some developemet ofthe the alien cahracters taht might have added quite considerable to the movei
. especially tghe evil aline
, he did need some wrok
.
though this could have beeen worked onthe
, teh movie ws waht it proposed tothe be a rather shallow
and witty comedy
. that was acheived rather well
, with some interesting commentary
and observations
. a movei worth a veiw
, bu keep in mind wqat the movie is
and if you are nto fond of will smith
' s form of humor
then i wouldn
' t go
. orginally written aftter original realease
. totally rewritten december 26
, 1997