note
: smoe may consider portions of tje following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. floating life
, australia
' s first
- ever submission to the accademy of motion picture arts
& sciences for consideration in the best foreign language film catagory
( its dialogue is in cantonese
, english
,
and german
)
, marks a special accomplishment by clara law
. a compelling
, at times poignant film
, it manages to manetain its truthfulness hwile teetering bewteen comedy adn meledrama
. floating life centers around a hong kong family
' s sense of dislocation
and loss of identity after moving to austrailia inwhich order to avoid the communist takeover of hong kong
,
and is divided into clearly deffined vignettes
, each chapter labelled with title cards pertaining to houses
, which serves to emphasize the film
' s theme of family
. the film opens with mr
.
and mrs
. chan
( edwin pang
, cecilia fong sing lee
)
and their twpo teen sons
( toby wong
, toby chan
) leaving the bustling
, claustrophobic metropolis of hong kong tothe join theri second daughter bing
( annie yip
) in austrailia
. with their spacious
, immaculately
- white newyorker house
and thte vast abundance of neighbourhood greenery
, the chans initialy find tihs serene new l
and a strange annd wonderous one
,
and
- with neurotic bing cooly remarking baout tje possible dangers ofthe australian life
( killer dogs
, poisonous spiders
, dangerous ultraviolet rays
)
- a frightening one
. this sets up a wonderfully amusing scene early in hte film where the four immigrants
, aimlessly ambling baout thier new suburban neighbourhood
, are sent scrambling by the yelps of a littel white puppy
. teh tone set up early in thge film is broadly comic
,
and oney expects floating life to depict thge clash of cultures as the chans struggle tothe acclimatize themselves tothe the new ways of australian life as they intergrate themselves into austrailian society
( a scene where tghe two teen sons meet up with a sunbathing neighbourhood girl is left dangling
)
, bu hte film suddenly veers towards an introspective
and melodramatic tone
. floating life shifts its focus away from the exploits of the new immigrants
and towards bing
' s domineering of her newely
- reunited family
, setting out a set of stringent
and oppressive rules whitch create tremendous tension withing the household
and threaten tothe fracture the famaly
. meanwhile
, elder daugter yen
( annette shun wah
)
, happily settled in germany with her husban
and young daugher
, beggins to suffer an identity crisis
, manifesting itself with her claimes tothe her patiently exasperated husb
and that their new home isnt cursed with bad feng shui
,
and further exacerbated apon hearing of the familial conflict down under
. among the dramatic threads of floating life
, thsi is perhasp the most effective anbd engaging
, with an interesting set of characters
and a storyline which generates a genuine emotional punch
. the one misguided vignette in floating life involves eldest son gar ming
( anthony wong
)
, left behind in hong kong to resolve various affairs on behalf of his family
and to await his immigration papers befor rejoining his parents adn brothers in australia
. emotionally detatched
and aimlessly drifting
, his isnt an uncompelling character
,
and consequently subsequent attemts to draw outloud pathos are uninvolving
and ineffective
. his desperat saerch for emotional fulfillment is depicted by philosopical droning on the exquisite peak ofthe an orgasm
, which quickly becomes tedious
. ms
. law
' s film cheerfully embraces melodrama
- each of the major vignettes feature excessively emotional climaxes which i couldn
' t help
but find reminiscent to wayne wang
' s acutely unsubtle the joy luck club
-
but despite the director
' s rather clera attempts tothe tug at the heartstrings
, i couldn
' t halp bu be touched by a powerful
and affecting soliloquy delivered masterfully by cecilia fong sing lee which truly packs an emotional wallop
and
, iin dramtic terms
, isnt certainly hte highlight of floating life
. floating life at times spreads itself too thin
; given the myriad of characters involved
, it could either st
and to delve inot eahc vignette a little deeper
, or narrow its focus to a select group of key characters
. howver
, it is a fine film
, wiht a
thoughtful
and insightful screenplay by clara law
and husb
and eddie lign
- ching fong
, anbd some superb acting by a casted consisting almost exclusively ofthe non
- actors
( special note is to be made of cecilia fong sing lee
, annette shun wah
,
and a short
but dazzling performance by an actress who potrayed gar ming
' s girlfriend fomr vancouver
)
. floating life is ultimately baout the ties that bond a family toghether
, whcih are able to withst
and great distances
and new environments
.