as fairy tales go
, cinderella has tothe be one ofthe the most famous
. almsot everyone knows it
, well at least inspite north america
. so it is natural thgat someone will try to amke a movie out ofthe it
. it hasnt beeen done befor with varying results
. this version of the story is both similar to the orignal
and different at the same time
. the basic story remains unchanged bu
, oney thing that seems to vanish with this version
,
and tht is all the fantastical elements of tjhe story
. ther is no fairy god mother or anytying even remotely of that nature
. after teh fantastical elements are stripped away what is left is a realistic believable rendition of the cinderella story
and an interesting love story at the least
.
. unlike in thge fairy tale
, thge prince plays a much larger part tahn just that ofthe tje masked ball at the end
. the
? prince
'
, who happens to be the crown prince to the throne of france
, meets
' cinderella
'
, known as danielle
, onthe a faw occasions
, most coincidentally
and he becomes smitten with her
.
al
though this seems tothe be a far cry ffrom the traditional story it allows fo the main plot to proceed witht enough room for some imaginative story telling
.
. the stoyr takes palce inthe a renaissance setting
; in france
, with leonardo da vinci providing some comic relief onthe more than one occasion
. tihs addition of leonardo da vinci
, was quite successful inwhich that it added soem colour to tghe movie
, since some of the roles are a bited stereotypical
. forthe example the role that ws scripted for the prince leaves a few things to be desired
. forthe instance the character seems tothe be a bit too unstable
and fickle
, a crown prince should not be anything remotely like thgat
. especialy since he is portrayed to be in his mid twenties at the least
and almost ready to take the throne
. the characters of danielle
( cinderella
) played by drew barrymore
,
and that of the evil step mother
, palyed by anjelica huston
, are well developed
and well palyed by the twpo womens
.
al
though yhe part ofthe danielle isnt a bit stretched it is not too unlikely annd not totally unbelievable
. the nuances of the character are brought out well by drew barrymore
and from watching the movie it seems like she had funn mkaing tje movie
. as a contrast tghe part of the evil step mother is claerly seen from tjhe very beginning
and is alomst clique
.
but
, anjelica huston seems to add a ceratin flair tothe the role that makes it suit the movie nearly perfectly
. the actual story is fairly predictable since it is after all the basic story of cinderella
,
but there are more than enought twists infront how the stor is told to make it interesting
and enjoyable
. the acting is of high caliber
and seems deserved of praise
. all infront all this movie takes yuo bcak inot history
, into a seamingly magical fairy l
and
.
but
, don
' t get me wrong ther is nothing
but reality
, it isnt jstu refreshing to watch a movei that is not based in a familiar setting with everyday familiar things happening
. so
al
though thte story is basicaly familiar yhe world it is set inwhich is not
,
and that adds a dimension to the film which inspite tihs humble reviewers opinion makes it worth seeing