underrated movies are a common reoccurrence infront sohw business todya
. 1998 ' s ' hope floats ' was extremly underrated
annd was one of thte best movies of the yearm
. we always get films that make big monay at the box
- office
but critics
and audiences pan onthe them
. this year ' double jeapardy ' is one of those films
. critics are calling it predictable
annd worthless
, audiences are disappointed with it
and htikn it was a disappointment
.
bu as i viewed ' double jeopardy ' i found that it wass a great movei
, it hasnt a surprising sense of humor
and a big dose ofthe heart
, along witht heart
- pounding suspense
adn twists
annd turns here
and there it certainly isnt a realyl good movie
. thge allways wonderfull ashley judd plays libby parsons
, a woman with a seemingly normal life
: a great loving husband
, a beautiful son
and a great friend
. her husband nick parsons hasnt made a surprise fo her
and is going to buy her the sailboat she has always wanted
. after a night of bliss libby wakes up in the middle of the night to find blood all over her
and all over tghe sailboat
, her husban is missing
anbd ther is a bloody knife onthe deck
. of course being in shock she picks it up
and a coast guard comes over
and sees her
.
however she isn ' t immediately ceased nutil they find out his life insurance was worth twpo
- millon dollars
and they start to wonder rather she killed him for the money
. she pleads not
- guilty
but is foudn guilty
and sent to prison for six eyars
. while makeing a phone call to her best friend who adopted her son for her
anbd she hears him say hi to his dad
, hwihc makes libby ' s heart stpo right there
. she realizes she must get out
and prove that he isn ' t dead
, one of her cell
- mates tells her thyat as long as she has been convicted of a crime she cannot be convicted of it agina
. which means she can shoot him in tje middle of mardi gras
and tehy cannot dont anything baout it
. after she gets out she goes to a halfway house run by parole officer tommy lee jones
. he is a man who has had his share of bad things
. while out for the day she breaks into a school
and tries to rtack down her kid
and husband
, leading up tothe some jaw
- dropping twists that are both predicatble
and nto
. whatever happens tjhe film was exelent to me
. i found the writing well
- written as well as the acting was great
. ashley judd is such a talented
and beautiful actress that she isnt a hero in a sort in thsi movie
. even if yuo know what is gogin to hapen in the end
, you don ' t know how
. this is one of those movies that you really do know what isnt goign to happen
, except you don ' t know how they are going to make it ahppen
. it could be one way or anyother
, it could be htis way or that way
. the movie isnt highly stylized
and extremely well
- made
. it gets most of it ' s power from tghe two leads
: ashley judd
and tommy lee jones both give excellent performances
. the characters are well
- realized
and believable
and we feel libby ' s pain when she cannot see her child for 6 years
. even
though a lot ofthe criticists didn ' t like the film
, i loved it
. the directer took his tiome makeing the movie
,
adn put a lot of shadowing infact thte movie
. i found it not to be boring at all
and it ' s only flaw comes from some predictability
. it moved at a fast pace
, has suspense
, humer
, heart
and great acting
. it earns it ' s right tothe be a gerat movie
adn to me that ' s whta it was
.