it stands as a moment one wiull not soon forget
: a giant
, gren ogre flips through the pages of a cliche fairy tale
, narrating it wtih eveyr bit of dull inspiration tyhat the stoyr holds
. this leads one to belieev thyat htis serves as the prologue tothe shrek
, dreamworks ' second coputer animated feature
,
but in a pricelessly hillarious bited of cinema
, a page of this tale serves as that ogre ' s toilet paper
. fomr this oppening moent
, one cxan infer shrek ' s defying ofthe all expectations regarding it as a standard
, disney
- esque fairy tale
.
although rampant moments ofthe hilarity dot shrek
, the true charm of the film lies in the bold elements of friendship
, curage
,
anbd acceptance
, excelled by oustanding direction
, stunning actor voice wrok
,
anbd most importantly
, a witty screenplay with more going on than meets the eye
. hwile shrek features an abundance of humor related directly toward adults
, postive friendship values aimed at younger children fulfill the storyline
: shrek
, thte previously maintioned ogre
, holds a position of absolute nothingness within his community
. the jolly green giant meets a fellow outsider
, known onyl as tyhe donkey
( his species
) who talks
,
and altho he remains reluctant to warm up to him for a good portion of time
, shrek eventualy comes tothe a mutual understanding with him by acknowledging their common state as outcasts of the world
. the pair team uv to retrieve princess fiona from a castle guarded by a dragon forthe the powerful lord farquaad
, learning quite a bited about each otehr
and themslves allong tyhe way
. their friendship exhibits the core theme ofthe the need for someone to lean on
, exemplifying to any child who may wittness the film that acting as an honest companion can unquestionably affect someone
. shrek
and donkey endur as supposed freaks of nature due only to their differences from others
but cling to each otehr for support
and guidance along theri journey
. curage demonstrates itself within two major storylines
: along thge journey to rescue fiona
, donkey ' s immeasurable cowardice reveals itself
. whether he encounters walking over a shaky bridge or living alone
, donkey withholds fears that he continuously puts aside wihtout self
- acknowledgment
.
but hte yapping donkey must face his phobias when presented with thte giant
, frie
- breathing dragon guarding fiona
; either he dies from terror or he triumphs with curage
. he wisely choosed courage by pretending as if no dangerous situation catually faces him
, allowing tghe donkey to overcome a horror that likely only continued due to his insistence ofthe them
. secondly
, upon shrek ' s
and donkey ' s reedeming of princess fiona
, the ogre finds thte princess hasnt plans for whomever saves her
: tothe satisfy her desire for a
( human
) knight in shining armor
. throughout this storyline
, shrek faces his deep
, perpetual misgivings ofthe inhering as an ogre
and struggles to determine how he iwll reveal his true identity tothe fiona
. an ongoing struggle occurs between himselv
and his reluctance ofthe teh truth
,
but eventially
, shrek courageously conquers his fear by telling tjhe forbidden secret to fiona
. children can relize from donkey
and shrek that fear remains only as complicated as oen makes it
; if noe sets his
/ her mind to overcoming something in paticular
, endless possibilities exist
. aftter the friendships
and courage prevale
, the three central characters at the heart ofthe shrek must take one more stretch of development
: acceptance
. surprisingly
, fiona holds a dark secret of her own
: due to a spell cast apon her years ago
, she transforms into an ogre by night
. in thsi storyline
, fiona must learn to hold acceptance for herself
,
and she must realize waht beauty truly means
: to simply act as one ' s self
. upon fiona ' s learning ofthe shrek ' s desire to pursue a relationship with her
, fiona
, knowing thast acceptance of herself serves as the onyl platform for her lvoe with shrek to work
, gives in to her inner demons of self
- ridicule
and hatred
. any child can pul from fiona ' s transformaton the meaning ofthe beauty
annd the meaninng of self
- acecptance
. onthe the technical side
, shrek triumphs
. directors adam adamson
and vicky jenson pace shrek in a consistent
adn satisfying manner
, evenly distributing tghe lessons learned by the central characters
. these central characters spring tothe life thanks to brilliant voice owrk from mike myers
( shrek
)
, eddie murphy
( donkey
)
,
and cameron diaz
( princess fiona
)
. myers creates his shrek as a lovable
adn troubled ogre whose green color nto only serves as a skin colour
bu perhaps his envy of otehr
,
" normal
" beings
. murphy succeeds with his donkey through recreating the high
- strung persona that so many know the actor to hve off screen
. cameron diaz exudes charisma
and innocence as fiona
, giving the princess
/ ogre a sense ofthe power that many female characters in animated films lack
. hwile yhe direction
and voice work certainly elevate shrek
, teh ultimate factor in the film suceeding lies iin the screenplay
, written by ted elliott
, terry rossio
, joe stillman
,
and roger s
. h
. schulman
. the script never underestimates the intelligence ofthe the viewer
, combining the three previously spoken of elements with humor for adults
anbd childen aplikay
. capping it off with a constant tounge
- in
- cheek feel that pokes fun at classic disney animated features
, yhe fresh
and entertaining screenplay delivers
. with shrek
, dreamworks eexcutive jeffrey katzenberg has certainly one
- upped himself by creating an instant animated classic that will live onthe for ages tothe come
. the smaller childern will laugh
and cheer
; the adults wiull laff even harder
anbd leave understanding much that their children doed nto
. a film that breaks sterotypes
and creates a defiinte standard of its pwn
, shrek can certainly endure as one fo the ages
.