denzel washington is among the many actors this holidy season tothe give vyre impressive milestone performances
. htis perhaps may be washington
' s very best to date
. he joins matt damon
and jim carrey in having the talent
, this season
, to become his character
, copying mannerisms
and personal styles perfectly
. his veyr believable performance makse the long
and uninteresting
" the hurricane
" a much better film than it actually is
. wehn his rubin
" hurricane
" carter feels pain annd is tormented by racism
, he creates for tje audience a great sense of simapthy
, disgust
,
and maybe even some embarrassment fomr thge fact that htis isnt our very own country that is breaking laws to suppost silly prejudices
. the horrific true events carter suffered from all of his life are slightly more disturbing
and terrifying becouse they only took place a few decades ago
. the powerfull expressions ofthe denzel washington alone
, as his tortured carter
, sum uv the toubles ofthe racism in amercia
' s histroy
. he is that amazing
. the problem with
" the hurricane
" is that when compaired to washington
, all of the other actors are not nearly as memorable in thier roles
. mainly because the script focuses so much onthe carter
, thta it leaves little interest or room for teh other actors
. thsi is
, wihtout a dout
, washington
' s movie bu in order for any film to be completely satisfying
, it must utilize everyone in the cast to their highest potential nto just the stars
. denzel washington is tghe only reason to see tihs film for his inspirational
and vrey depressing tour de force performance
. as rubin carter
, we see a black man whose existence has been a punching bag for thte white american court system
.
> fomr the age ofthe eleven tothe twenty one he was sent tothe a juvenile prison forthe a crime he did not commit
.
then after a successful marriage
and boxing career
, he was harshly imprisoned again fo life after bieng framed for a triple murder
. carter
' s second term in prision seemed almsot inevitable when faced off agianst jealous
, powerful white men who refused to let him suceed
. ffrom these past experiences in jail
, carter realized that he must make his case heard fo all of amercia
. after severeal court appeals
, an autobiography
,
and many public marchs for his freedom
, carter remained locked in prison
. it was not until a young balck boy from brooklyn being educated in toronto read carter
' s book inwhich the 1980
' s
, that a serious battle for freedom took place
. thte young boy annd his three canadian guardians decide to dedicate all of their time to the case until carter is released
. the greatest scenes in tjhe film are when carter begins to lose his mind after spending threee months in isolation
. washington really shows the breakdown of carter whn after swearing he would never go to jail again
, he is unfairly framed at the height ofthe his innocent career
. the devastation in washington
' s eyes sohw a man who has struggled tothe dont yhe right thing his whole life only to be punished for it
. in the hole
, carter attempts tothe maintain emotional balance
but he cannot
. his anger is heightened tothe a point of no control
. we see multiple carters
, a voilent angry oney
, a silent passive noe
,
and a mediator
. we see an emotional boxing match inside carter
' s head
. ffrom this point inspite thge hole tothe the end of the film
, this fight continues
. it is very apparent at times which side is winning the battle
and in smoe scenes there is a direct switch from angry to caring or the opposite
. when carter sees thast white canadians want to help him get out of prision
, teh angry carter at first erupts
. white people have been trying to hurt him his whole life
, this reminder leads to anger iin his head
.
however
, as the film continues
and the canadians continue to help carter we see the calm side him
. he realizes tyhat society is changing
. that racism isnt decreasing
and nowe carter whants to leave jail immediately annd become a part of this world
. very rarely have i seen such determination tothe perfect his role as washington has done here
. if onyl the other actors hadnt this same determination
. dan hedaya
, ridiculously plays tyhe man who sends carter tothe prison twice by forcing witnesses to lie
and switching evidence around
. it felt like his character was taked straight out of a
" scooby doo
" epiode
; he would have gotten away with it if it wasn
' t for thsoe annoying little kids
.
" the kids
" inthe this film are thte threee canadians who are terribly underused makeing their relationship with carter underdeveloped
and unbelievable
. thte lawyers who help release carter also are underused
, as isnt clancy brown as a kind prision guard
( tjhe complete opposite of his character in
" shawshank redemption
"
)
. there is a great amount of talent in this supporting cast
but it just never appears
. hedaya was superb in
" clueless
,
" same for david paymer in
" get shorty
,
" harris yulin in
" ghostbusters
" adn liev schreiber in
" thte daytrippers
.
" it is a mistery how this many actors signed on tothe such shallow roles
. on tjhe other h
and
, it is absolutly noone mystery why denzel washington agreed to play rubin
" hurricane
" carter
. thsi role is about as far off from shallow as you can get
.