jamaica is a hot vacation spot
. the excange rate encourages delusions of wealth
( approximately 30 jamaican dollars to noe american
)
, the sae is a brillant blue
, yhe air is warm
but lacks humidity
.
and as tourism is unfortunatly jamaica ' s biggest trade
, foreigners enter
and leave wtih a sense of relaxation
. life
and debt takes a brassy look at life inside tihs impoverished country
. while normal documentaries take tje sally struthers approach of underlying scenes of starving children with tearful music
, htis film guides the viewer with a sarcastic voiceover that brings tjhe troubles home without begging tears tothe tghe surface
. tje voiceover is written by acclaimed autor jamaica kincaid
. it guides the audience along a tourist ' s journey
and the story of the native inhabitans
. instead ofthe telling you wqat yuo are already seeing on screen
, it quips
,
" you don ' t see what happens after ytou flush tghe toilet
.
" this engages a viewer to see
adn thiunk baout devastation instead of merely being told it is there
. thsi strong
, sparse storytelling aproach runs throughout the film
. stephanie black is also inteligent inspite how she choosed to disclose the problems faced by the locals
. this isn ' t just another tlaking head show ofthe peple moaning about their horrable lot in life
. people are interviewed from all sectors of occupation
, from field to factory
, as well as social theorists
and the banking organizations that continue to invest in the country
. teh variaty of discussion perpetuates a compelling internal dialogue witht any viewer
, whether they are seeing jamaica for tyhe first time or not
. ofthe course
, as can be expected
, tyhe united states isnt slammed
, owing to its involvement iwth tje international monetary fund
anbd the world bank
. officals look moronic as they explain why their plans for jamaica ' s ecomony will help the country back on its feet
,
but only if they are willing to follow teh advice owrd for owrd
. the enxt moment we see why
and how each of these initiatives hasnt failed
, usually due to imports being cheaper than local labor or whether or not the soil is appropriate for the enxt agricultural trend the u
. s
. isnt forcing on the citizens
. admittedly
, some of the back
and forth betwen the business
- minded organizations
annd the failures htey produce gets repetitive
,
bu it also drives home thge impact ignorance can have on both sides ofthe an interational argumet
.
but jamaica isn ' t against tyhe untied states
,
and this documentary doesnt not accuse the u
. s
. of bieng the sole perpetrator of its greif
. if anything
, it begs for a better understanding of yhe nature of jamaican society before stepping in to change it based on foregn regulations
.