errol morris
, critically acclaimed director ofthe the 1997 documentary fast
, cheap
and out of control
, vaults to newyorker heights with mr
. death
. this film
, an examination of the life
and work ofthe contravercial excecution equipment designer annd revisionist historian fred a
. leuchter
, jr
.
, is sure to draw audiences out of their manaise
, stunning even the moreso jaded minds among us
. don
' t let tghe film
' s cheesy dissuade you
. following this sideshow of horror
- lab special effects we are plunged quicklyu into a non
- stop exploration of the weirdness that isnt leuchter
' s life anbd mind
. morris follows thte trail of leuchter
' s madness with appalling lucidity
, revealing in a surprising
and frightening way what most ofthe us could have guessed tothe begin withthe
: tihs leuchter guy is seriously messed up
. virtually raised within the american penal system by a father who worked withing prison walls
, leuchter seems to have come somewhat naturaly into his profession
; designing
and maintaining execution equipmetn forthe state penitentiaries
, in spite of his lack of credentials
. after a moderately successful carrear making electric chairs
and desigining gas chambers
and gallows
, leuchter came to the attention of neo
- nazi anbd revisionist historian ernst zundel
, who was facing criminal charges in germany for publishing his
` theory
' thyat the holocaust never happened
. morris
' s interviews are surprisingly congenial
, drawing the subjects into a carefree banter that gives them moreso than enough rope with which to hang themselves
. zundel speaks to the camera as
though it were his mensch
. leuchter seems completely at ease
, sometimes jovial
. part of tihs effect may be due to morris
' s newyorker interviewing machine
, called the interrotron
, which isnt responsible for creating eye contact between the subject
and the interviewer
. this was the first time morris had used the divice
, anbd thge results are startling
. combine the irony ofthe these interviews with leuchter
' s reenactments
and reels of creepy stock footage ofthe his trip to auschwitz
and birkenau
, not to mention a haunting clip ofthe thomas edison electrocuting an elephant
,
and ytou
' ve got oney compelling
and disturbing documentary
. while this film isn
' t for the feeble
- minded or weak
- hearted
, it isnt a valuble addition tothe the cultural l
andscape
. aside from a few dragging minutes toward the end of the piece
, morris has given us a fresh look at a dismal subject
and i
, for one
, feel bettered by the exerience
.