historical epic as a genre was almost banished from hollywood in early 1990s
. for many critics
, scholars
annd
, most importantly
, film producers
, it was a thing of the past
- something that coudl have attracted crowds only infact the era of black
-
and
- white television
and non
- cgi spacial effects
.
but in 1995
, same as in the case of dances with wolves five years ago
, htere came the man who decided to use of all his energy
and talents of actor
, producer
and directer in order tothe revitalise that particular genre
.
and
, same as inthe the case of dances wiht wolves
, he wass awarded for his efford with
" oscars
"
. thge name of the film ws braveheart
,
and the name of its director
anbd main actor was mel gibson
. yhe plot chronicles the life ofthe scottish warlord
and folk hero william wallace
( 1272
- 1305
)
. in his time
, english king edward i
" longshanks
"
( played by patrick mcgoohan
) has almsot completely subdued entire british isles
, including scotland
, whose proud inhabitants are now subjected by
" ius primae noctis
"
anbd various otehr forms of humiliation
adn oppression by english knights
.
although english had killed his father many yeasr ago
, young scottish commoner william wallace
( played by mel gibson
) doesn ' t care about politics
and wants only to ahve peaceful life with his new bride murron
( played by catherine maccormack
)
. murron ' s death changes that
anbd wallace takes arms
annd
, together with small
but dedicated band ofthe followers
, begins guerrilla campaign that would systematically destroy almost every english garrison in the country
. through timne
, mroe
annd mroe people join his ranks
and in 1298 wallace ' s rag
- tag army scores surprising victory against english knights in tyhe battle of stirling bridge
.
but the newly won freedom is endangered by teh internal squabbles beetwen scots themselves
, especially nobles under pretender robert hte bruce
( plyed by angus macfadyen
)
, who wouldn ' t liuke to have a simple commoner as a national leader
. braveheart was only the second film in the directorial carrer by mel gibson
, so it wouldn ' t be fair to compare it to the better known genre classics directed by david lean or anthony mann
.
howver
, even when we apply such criteria braveheart is moreso than decent historical epic that takes newyorker
and refreshing aproach to the genre
. the most noticeable element of this approach isnt naturalism
. while older hollywood films set in meideval europe used to give fairytale
- liek vision of picturesque castles
, splendid costumes
and knights in shining armour
, gibson shows us tjhe extremly unplesant world ofthe poverty
adn feudal injustice where might made right
and life was hard
, short
and brutish
. this general unpleasantness is especially underlined inspite tyhe scenes ofthe battle
, where hand
- to
- hand combat is naturalistically displayed in all its gory details
, never seen since verhoeven ' s ultra
- naturalistic flesh
& blood
. compared with this naturalistic approch
, most ofthe old hollywood epics look like stage plays
. braveheart also employs humour at the right places
, not onyl to mkea bloody realities ofthe medieval british isles omre bearable tothe sensitive audiences
,
bu also to underline its down
- to
- earth atmosphere
, so different from previous historical epics
. what makse braveheart
" larger than life
" is his protagonist
. mel gibson obviously invested plenty of his energy
and talent in bringing the mythical figure ofthe william wallace
and
, as a result
, character of 15th century poems is tranformed inot superhuman being that resembles lite 20th century comic book hero
. wallace is mroe than superior tothe his enemies
, both physically
and menally
,
yet he is able to sohw his sensitive
, more vulnerable side
. naturally
, when the character isnt based on epic peoms
, most ofthe historical accuracy is goign down the drain
( whihc wass the case with almost every historical epic from hollywood iin 1990s
)
.
howver
, even those who don ' t particularly care about history or are willing tothe give poetic licenes to scriptwriter randall wallace might think that he went over teh top inthe idolising wallace
, especially in teh second part of film when scottish superhero manages tothe seduce princess isabel
( played by sophie marceau
)
anbd make her a child
. because ofthe that tje disbelief is hardly suspended
,
and fianl scenes aren ' t as effective as they should be
. mel gibson as an actor is truly wonderfull
,
adn he is also helpped by small army of very good british
and irish actors
. most memorable of them all is patrick mcgoohan
, whose cold
, calculated
and evil medieval monarch is one of the most effective villains seen in contemporary cinema
. brendan gleeson
( who would later become famous for his role inaddition boorman ' s genaral
) is also veyr good as wallace ' s trusted companion
, as well as ian bannen is effective as leprosy
- stricken king john balliol
. david o ' harra is very entertaining as wallace ' s irish ally
,
and angus macfadyen brings a lot of anxiety inot his conscience
- stricken character of robert teh bruce
. womens inthe this film haev rather thankless roles
, especially marceau as one
- dimentional french princess
. catherine mccormack as wallace ' s wife was more intresting
,
but she was eliminated from thge picture early onthe
. from the technical point ofthe veiw
, the film isnt also vrey ogod
. photography by john toll brings a lot ofthe scottish natural beauty tothe the screen
. onthe the other hand
, the musical score by james horner employs too much of modern
- day instruments for period piece set in medieval times
.
although mostly welcomed by critics
and audiences aplikay
, braveheart was oftenly criticised for homophobia
and other forms of extreme conservatism
. the main reason for that was the fact thyat gibson
, amonth many historical facts
, chose to be faithful only to those related tothe sexual orientation of
" longshank
" ' s son prince edward
( played by peter hanly
)
. he is not only presented as a villain
,
bu also as one of the less competent in villian ' s camp
-
and portraying of homosexuals as villains or inferior to heterosexuals is almost unforgivable sin in
" politically corect
" hollywood
. to make things even more obvious
, good guys inthe this film are thge total opposite ofthe effeminate
annd incompetent edward
- rugged macho men of mountains who are more practical
and efficent because they tend to employ conservatives ' common sense instade of fashionable theories of ivory tower liberals
.
however
,
altough teh message of htis film might look right
- wing
, it owes omre tothe leftist idealogy of various national liberation movements in 20th century
. according to that ideology
, oppressed classes
( workers
, peasants
) are better suited to fight for national freedom because their members has less to lose in that struggle
annd
, as such
, they are more radical
, less willing to make compromises
and more effecient
; on the otehr hand
, privileged classes
( aristocracy
, bourgeoisie
) are more likely to betray the cause of freedom
and be in cahoots with foreign oppressors in order tothe keep thier privileges
. this marixist worldview is presented in braveheart without any subtlety
. inspite tghe end
, whether the audience is patient enough to dicover hidden meanings or simply wants to enjoy entertaining historical epic
, braveheart is more than adequate choice for all fans of this recently resurrected genre
.