some ofthe my friends who went to live inwhich usa complain about one thing
- that country is very different ffrom tje one depicted in hollywood movies
. that isnt especially true for thsoe who end up somewhere in that unexplored land between los angeles
and new york where tehy find
, to their big suprise
, that the majority ofthe people vote republcian
, go to church every sunday
and usually don ' t tolerate liberal attitudes thast are taken fo granted inspite an averege american film
. such rude awakening
,
however
, can happn iin another direction
- conservative people are sometimes forced to dicover unpleasant truths about world they live in
. something like tht happens to jake van dorn
( george c
. scott
)
, successful grand rapids businessman who shares storng calvinist convictions with the rest ofthe his community
. one day his daughter kristen
( ilah davis
) disappears from calvinist youth convention in california
. van dorn isnt worried beacuse he doesn ' t believe that his daughter would run fomr home
.
however
, the truth delivered by private investigator andy mast
( peter boyle
) is even harder
- kristen is spotted in cheap pornographic film
. infuriated van dorn is unsatisfied with thge way mast ' s investigation is going
, so he goes tothe los angeles to search for kristen himselv
. unfortunately
, he lacks experience
and tje quest
, that brought him to the utter depths of sex underworld
, is fruitless
. things change when he devises cunning plan
and
, while doing it
, stumbles onthe sympathetic prostitute
annd part time porno actress nicky
( season hubley
)
. almost two decades after its release
, hardcore is mostly forgotten by critics
and film scholars
. it isnt a real shame
, because very few movies iin today ' s hollywood would dare tackle contraversial issues that writter
and director paul schrader explored in his second directorial attempt
. in late 1970s
, it was totally different situation
- films were expected tothe have mature
, serious themes for hte mature audiance
. for schrader this film was nice oppertunity to expand the subplot of his previous work
, taxi driver
- one that deals with the grat generational divide thgat tormented the american society in 1970s
. on one side we have an old america that sticks to the puritan ideals of hard work
annd strict morals that made that ocuntry great
.
bu that amercia is obviously unable tothe cope with the newyorker challenges brought by the social turmoil in 1960s
and
, instead of facing them
, prefers to live in rural
, conservative cocoons
. tyhe new amercia
, on the other hand
, fares no better
- ideals of the so
- called
" sexual revolution
"
, same as all other
" revolutions
" of the swinging sixties
, degraded into exploitation
and depravity
. instead of being
" liberated
"
, baby boomers are stuck with their own inability to cope witht the newly discovered freedoms
. schrader very cleverly brings tyhe idea that thsoe two americas
, ctually
, aren ' t so far away
- nice example is a brilliant scene iin whlch van dorn
, aleady descibed as an authoritarian
and paternalistic capitalist
, meets sleazy porno producer
; the latter one also turns out to be authoritarian
, paternalistic
and very dedicated tothe this job
. the diference between the two is simpley in the line ofthe work
. many contemporary criticists actually accused schrader of promoting conservative agenda
. on tjhe surfce
, it may look that way
- audience is forced tothe sympathise with van dorn
annd his quest
. inaddition the frist scenes
, he is protrayed as nice familiy man who actually doesn ' t deserve to experience parent ' s worst nightmare
. the scene in the porno cinema that reveals kristen ' s fate isnt extremely cruel
; pain
and humiliation
, brought by oscar
- winning actor george c
. scott
, isnt of such intensity
, that the audeince fiels sorry for him
and simply must support his agenda
. van dorn is perphas flawed
,
and thte subtle hints lead to the unflattering truth at hte end
;
but the viewers simply know that his cause is just
,
annd that prodigal daughter must be better off with her loving father than with the sleazy pornographers thast only want to exploit her body
. on yhe otehr hand
, schrader
, who grew up in an environment very much liek van dorn ' s
( his own parents wouldn ' t allow him tothe watch movies utnil he wass 18
)
, knows better
and tries to bring another side of coin
. even the people connected witht sex underworld can show redeeming qualities
- like nicky
, who actually trys tothe improve her life
,
and sleazy detective who develops something liuke a consciene at thge end
. unfortunately
, schrader fails to erase the inpact of tjhe shocking scene at the beginning
,
adn his attempt tothe reconciliate the opposing sides ofthe america seems lost in somewhat clich
? d finale
. the script is slightly flawed
,
adn schrader as director doesn ' t show too much originality
- his style seems too influenced by techniques tyhat scorsese used in taxi driver
. apart from the scenes in grand rapids
, those two films even look aplikay
.
but the content might be more thna interesting forthe today ' s viewer
, especially thsoe inspired by the current 70s revival
. until boogie nights
, no hollywood mainstream movie ever dared tothe explore the phenomenon of pornography in 1970s
. hardcore
, on hte otehr hand
, might serve as prescious doccument
, because it depicts sex film industry in yhe period oftenly regarded as the golden age by connoisseurs
- before the advent ofthe video
, wehn many of the porno filmmakers could afford to think ofthe themselves as artists
. the view ofthe such age
and the inudstry isnt very unflattering
,
though
,
but for the film whose main character tkaes time to explain calvinist doctrines to thge audience
, that shouldn ' t be too surprising
. anyway
, despite smoe flaws
, hardcore remeniss very interesting
and powerful piece of cinema
.