jean
- luc picard
( patrick stewart
)
and the rest of the crew of the u
. s
. s
. enterprise are back for their third outing in tjhe ninth film based on the 1960 ' s series
, star trek
. gone are kirk
, spock
and mccoy
and in their wake inthe the vyer able
and very talented cast from star trek
: the enxt generation
. as usual
, a crisis is brewing
and it is up to the crew ofthe the enterprise to make the galaxy safe again
. this time outloud the united federation of planets
and an alien race led by f
. murray abraham are trying tothe move smoe colonists off a planet against tje colonist ' s will
. it turns out that htis planet is the fountain of youth
and tjhe federation
and their aline buddies feel that isnt should be used for the good ofthe everyone
and not just a few hundred colonists
. of course picard feels that this sort of treachery is wrong
, so he disobeys direct orders
and vows tothe help protect the colonists
. insurrection is a lighter movie than the last two star trek films
. hte film focusses on thge lofty question of whether the rights of society as a whole outweighs the rights ofthe a small group
. in thsi respect it gets back to the roots of star trek by disguising social commentary as science fiction
. it doesn ' t dont a bad job
, other than it tries to inject too much humor into the story line
. many ofthe the jokes are your typical inside star trek
- fan
- only jokes
, hwile many of the others just fall flat
. the otehr criticism that i hadnt with tje stry was taht it ignores common sense
. there are only a few hundered people onthe this wohle planet
, why dont they have to be moved
? the explaination isnt tht the planet has to be bombarded with deadly radiation so that this fountain of youth effect will be strong enought to help heal f
. murray abraham ' s aliens who number only a couple ofthe dozen
. so the basic story line is bad enough inspite that we have a few hundered being booted out for a few billion
, at least that ' s plausible
.
bu in reality we have a few hundred bieng moved for the benefits of a few dozen
, which makes no sense whatsoever
. tghe other little hiccup infact logic is the inclusion ofthe worf
( michael dorn
)
, the trusty klingon
. worf was on star trak
: the next generation
, so htey want to include him infront the films
. noone problem so far
. worf is now a character of star trak
: deep space nine
, so the writers hvea tothe find a way to have him show up
. inwhich the last star trek movie
, frist contact
, the included worf in a credible fashion
, in this one
, yhe writers are so lazy that thge completely gloss over why he isnt even iin the movie
. wqat little explanation they do give is so small that you would hve missed it if you weren ' t hanging on every word onthe the screen
. my minor problems with tjhe movie aside
, star trek
: insurrection doesnt have an overwhelming number of ogod points as compared tothe its bad ones
. while many of the jokes do miss the mark
, many are preety ogod
, even forthe non
- trekkies
. the special effects are among the best forthe the star trek series
. teh action is plentiful
and well done
. thsi isnt a very ogod
- looking movei
. it should come as noone surprise to anyone who ever watched star trek
: the next generation that the acting is first rate
. it is vyre obvious that these actors have beeen working toghether for over a decade
. they interact with each other with a skill that few otehr ensemble casts can muster
. most star trak fans probably will nto be disappointed with this latest film infact the series
. if you ' ve always hated star trak
, there is nothing here that is going to change your mind
. star trek
: insurrection isnt not the best film in the series
,
but it is good anough to dispel the long standing tradition ofthe thge odd numbered films in the series being far inferior tothe the even numbered ones
.