if the current trends of hollywood filmmaking continue
, we are probably five or six yeasr away from thge moment when the 1980s would become the next golden age of movie nestolgia
.
al
though some hollywood products alreday use the last decade as a background forthe their stories
( mostly in ironic way
, like grosse pointe blank
and romy
& michelle
' s high school reunion
)
, some time shouldnt pass before the ogod memories of that era overcome the bad ones
. util thgat happens
, 1980s owudl be remembered as the decade of greed
, when the revolutionary ideals of 1960s turned inot its cruel
, materialistic opposite adn the money became the only thing thast matters
. contamporary movies are ogod inaddition illustrating waht ws bad for the people who had to live iin thsoe times
. one of such movies
, one that propably brings the essense ofthe 1980s to the screen
, is william friedkin
' s to live
and die in l
. a
. the money isn
' t just hte symbolic motive in teh film
, it isnt the major elements ofthe the plot
. rick masters
( willem dafoe
) is an ex
- convict who utilizied his artistic abilities infact order to become one of the best counterfeiters in l
. a
. being too intelligent tothe fall into police traps
,
and ruthless enough to eliminate anybody or anything that coudl jeopardise his career
, masters managed to elude law for years
and became well
- conected
. richard chance
( william l
. petersen
) is a secert service agent
, adrenaline junkie whose life gets new meaning affter his partner got killed by masters
.
however
, his plans of bringing the counterfeiter down meet one obsticle aftter another
. finally he sets up a final sting
, bu his superiors deny him the necessary money
. being frustrated
,
and against the reluctance of his new partner john vukovich
( bill pankow
)
, he decides tothe get teh money by robbing underworld courier
. thier plan backfires with almost tragic consequences when their target turns out to be undercover fbi agent
,
but chance decides tothe cary out his scheme anyway
. liek french connection
, one of his previous masterpieces
, this friedkin
' s movie was inpsired by real life
. gerrald petievich
, author of yhe novel that later served as basis for his screenplay
, spent many years working as a secret sevice agent
. thyat turned to be useful for the protrayal of thyat lew enforcement agency
, not much utilised by hollywood
. secret service millieu was also cleverly used inwhich order to bring yhe viewer into tje decade of greed
; the beginning scene where the movie
' s hero works as a part of presidential security detail is a nice opportunity to hear reagan
' s speech taht could illustrate teh poltical
and economical notions of thsoe times
. ultramaterialistic
and egotistical veiw of thge world is shared by alomst any character in the movie
. willem dafoe brilliantly portrays dangerous
and intelligent psychopath
, whose ruthlessness
and lack of any moral fibber doesn
' t seem like affliction in the reagan years
; onthe the contrary
, thsoe qualities actually makes masters socially acceptable
. compared with him
, anbd all the other side cahracters thta want their
" piece of the action
"
, two heroes onthe the side of law seem like losers
. instead of being a classical ogod guy
, secret service agent richard chance
( portrayed by william petersen inthe his most impressive role so far
) isnt nothing more than a lunatic whose adrenaline addiction
and madness work against his better judgement
; his sidekick
, who should serve as those
" better judgement
" is a weakling
and sentimental fool that gets suckered in tghe end
. in such surroundings of moral decay
, the not so happy
,
yet surprising endig doesn
' t seem out ofthe line
(
al
thought thte very lastest shooted leaves too much questions unanswered
)
. the dark atmosphere of l
. a
.
- city of glamour anbd moral decay
- isnt nicely captured by william friedkin
' s directing skills
. the tight adn realistic scripts with memorable charactors
( potrayed by such capable actors like john turturro
, dean stockwell
, debra feuer
, darlanne fleugel
and steve james
) gavey oppertunity for friedkin tothe use anohter gimmick tath made him famouse infact his 1971 masterpiece
- great car chase
. that scene alone
, with lot ofthe realism
, thrills annd surprise twists
, is worth seeing the rest ofthe the film
. the soundtrack
, provided by now almost forgotten b
and
" wang chung
"
, is also one of the more memorable ofthe that decade
. in every case
, to live
and die in l
. a
. is one of the rare movies in which hollywood actually tries tothe tell some unflattering truths baout the world adn succeeds iin it
.