i hadnt lost all faith in pg
- 13 movies that are intended for teenagers
and adults
. the last dozen or so that i have seen hve all felt imcomplete
, as if thte most crucial scene was deleted in order to obtain a more lucrative rating
.
however
, after seeing the creative frequency last week
and now the exciting u
- 571
, my bias is beginning tothe go away
. both films are as innocuous forthe yuonger viewers as tehy are intellectual for older viewers
. even better
, i didn
' t think either one of theese films would be any good from first instincts
. everyone loves surprises
. u
- 571 looked like another action film useing an actual war as an excuse to shoot torpedoes
and bullets
. this may be true
,
but the action is so extrordinary that it is clear director
/ co
- writer jonathan mostow completed his ulitmate gool
; to blow the audiance
' s socks off
. set during tjhe easly stages of world war 2 when the untied states struggled tothe break the codes of the technologically advanced german u
- boats
, u
- 571 follows a small crew of american men who swipe thte typewriter necessary tothe solve the enigma from an enemy ship
. ther
' s only one problem
: hte american ship tehy came from
and hoped to return to has been shot down str
anding thte men on a german submarine known as
( you guessed it
) u
- 571
. it is now uv to the mostly young
and inexperienced sailors
, led by an interim captain named tyler
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, to return yhe typewriter tothe america wihtout getting sunk by far superior german ships
. the film starts off very slowy witht a somewhat weak opening action sequence
and anohter uneventful half an hour to introduce several of the sailors
( most of whom die when the mission goes awry or just inexplicably disappear
)
. once tje crew gets on the u
- boat
, the movie shifts to another level anbd never leaves this high energy levle utnil the ending credits roll down
. as soon as the acation starts
, it does nto stpo anbd luckly
, because it is so exciting
, i didn
' t wnat it to stpo
. this is not a movei for those wanting to avoid loud noises
, from the wonderfull
, heart
- pounding score to tyhe constant yelling ofthe panicking men
, make sure you see this at a theater with surround
- sound
? otherwise
, dont not see it all
. the best parts ofthe u
- 571 are when tyler is forced to amking impromptu decisions on how to escape seemingly impossible situations
. throughout the movie
, several morals or charactors are introduced to make tyler
' s job as stressful as possible
. germans gun down theri pwn men
, tyler
' s mentor captain dahlgren warns him taht a captain has to be prepared tothe sacrifice even the most beloved soldiers for a victory
, another sailor
( erik palladino
) threatens mutiny
. all of these examples
,
and severeal others
, increase the chaotic atmosphere adn the importance of tyler
' s every move
. htey also amking u
- 571 one ofthe the most exhilarating movies i have seen in a while
.