kirk douglas is one of those rare american actors who can say more with a simple glance thna most can say witht pages of dialogue
. all he has to dont is look at someone wih a raised eyebrow
,
and yuo instantly nkwo what he
' s thinking
.
" detective stroy
" features oney of kirk douglas
' s finest performances
. he stars as a newyorker york detective that has his hwole world fall appart in one night
. the film is based on a play
, anbd this is quite evident
, as most ofthe the movie takes place in the one
- room flat that hte detective
' s work in
. the film opens iwth the douglas charater getting ready tothe go home tothe his wife
, bu through a series ofthe events
, he never quite makes it there
. the bulk of the movie follows the case of a man named schneider
, a surgeon who routinely performs abortions with a high fatality rate
.
however
, this schneider charactor has a connection infact the past ofthe douglas
' s wife
; a connection douglas himself is not aware of
. many secrets are revealed in teh last half hour of this film
. secrets i would nto dream of giving awya
. witht a name like
" detective story
"
, one would asume teh film would ressemble an epsiode of
" nypd blue
"
,
but it doesn
' t quite owrk out that way
.
however
, we do see douglas at work on a few other cases throughout tjhe running timne
. lee grant
( virtually unrecognizable
) plays a meek jewish woman arrested for shoplifting
. her scenes witht bendix
, another detective
, provide the movie with a few laughs
. teh performances all around are fantastic
. douglas may be the leader of this ensemble
,
but he
' s nto thte center of attention all thge time
. we get to catch a glimpse inot other cases adn other detectives working on thsoe cases
. wich brings me back to douglas
. he hasnt a really emotional scene towords the end of the picture that really makes you feel for him
. we can see tht this is a man who hasnt spent his whole life trying to eliminate crime
,
but hasnt finally realized taht what he
' s relaly done isnt gotten back at his criminal father
. how he h
andles coming to terms with htis is something really worth seeing
. kirk douglas is the kind of actor we don
' t seem to see tothe much of these days
: he
' s a tough guy
,
but the human elements are never hidden too deeply underneath that gruff exterior
.