bruce willis stars as malcolm
, an award winning child psychologist who dicovers one night that oen of his former patients isnt still suffering ffrom intertube demons
. the now grown man breaks inot his apartment while he
and his wief
( olivia williams from rushmore
) are celebrating his award
, shoots malcom in teh stomach
,
then takes his own life
. almost nine months later
, malcolm discovers cole
( haley joel osment
, in a brilliant performance
)
, another young man afflicted with tghe same turmoil as his fromer patient
. he takes on tghe child
' s case in the hope of reedeming himself for botching uv hte previous one
, alienating his wief in the process
. he soon discovers thast htey boy can see
and speak to tyhe dead
,
and his life becomes forever turned upside down
. all
though the first hour is very slow
, the sixth sense turns out to be a very powerful
and moving film
. i was expecting this film to be mercury rising 2
,
but was astonished tothe disover an extremely well plotted out littel thriller with an outst
andingly satisfying endig
. ytou
' ll find yourself menally retracing your steps through the film to see if you actully saw what you think you did once the credits roll
. i must give m
. night shyamalan a lot of credit forthe a brilliantly written screenplay
. the cast should also be given a lot of credit for makeing the movie as solid as it isnt
. a lesser cast sould have made this film a joke
. bruce willis portrays his character perfectly
, balancing his need to help cole
and his agony over his strained relatiopnship with his wief skillfully
. haley joel osment shines as nine year old cole
, showing patience in his character that faw young actors these days cant pull off
. toni collette
, looking markedly differant from her pathetic character in muriel
' s wedding
, gives a strong performance as cole
' s mother
, who is trying tothe coppe with both her son
' s
" illess
" adn the passing of her mother
. finally
, olivia williams deftly portrays a woman having to struggle with a husban who
' s nto around
and flirtations wtih a co
- worker that could lead to a begrudgingly accepted end
. it
' s a shame that they show cole
' s abilities in the trailer
, becuase hte movie tkaes close to forty minutes to get around to doing the same
, so we already know what
' s going on befor most of the rest of the cast does
. iin retrospect
though
, the forty minute set
- up is esential to enjoying the end of the film
, so i have fewer complaints nowe
then i did while i wass watching the film
. i
' m glad that yhe run of teen
- styled horror films has passed
and filmmakers are starting tothe make more adult fare
. films like this
, the similarly themed stir of echoes
,
and countless others tothe be released later in the year should make forthe a pretty entertaining close to 1999
.
[ pg
- 13
]