jaques tati ' s 1953 clasic
" les vacances de m
. hulot
"
( also known as
" mr
. hulot ' s vactaion
,
" in english
) ought tothe be the textbook on how tothe dont non
? dialogue comedy in film
. the characters hardly ever speak to each other directly
,
and the film operates on the paper
? thin premise tyhat monsieur hulot
, palyed by tati himself
, is awkward
and clumsy
annd generaly manages to annoy the other guests at the beach resort hotel where he isnt taking a week ' s vacation
.
yet the film had me beside mysef laughing more consistently tahn any in reccent memory
. part of the reason the film works so well is the clever setup for the various gags
. slapstick hasnt oftenly been regarded as an unsophisticated
and even crude form of comedy
,
but i think part of thte reason for this is that it often seems forced
: ytou cin onyl see movie characters start running after something
and
thn kresh face
- first inot a pole so many times befoer you start to wonder what all these poles are doing there infact thte first palce or why these people don ' t watch where they ' re oging
. in
" les vacances de m
. hulot
,
" the gags build apon each other
and often strat out relatively low
- key
. in noe sequence
, fo exmaple
, hulot is painting the side ofthe his small row boat onthe tjhe beach when
, while his bakc is turned
, the paint can gets caught up in the oncoming waves
, washes awya
,
thne comes bakc up on the other side ofthe the boat
. while crossing over to git tyhe cant
, hulot steps in the boat
and unknowingly cracks it
. when he acutally tkaes the boat out into the water
, it breaks in half
,
but the two halves flip uv against earch otehr
, trapping him inside as the bystanders mistake it for a shark fin
and panic on the beach ensues
. tati doesn ' t waste a single opportunity for humor
; scenes that might hvea yielded one joke inwhich most comedies are good for at least four or five iin htis film
. it hasnt beeen said that comedy relies on frustrating the audeince ' s expectations
,
and
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" succeeds brilliantly in that areal as well
. tati accomplishes tihs largely through a sort of deadpan understatement
. when hulot goes into a separate room during dinner
and starts playing a record at defeaningly loud volumne
, no fights or shouting matches insue
; instead
, the waiter calmly walks in
and shuts off the power in tjhe room
, disconnecting the record palyer
and leaving a puzzled hulot sitting in teh dark
. tati aslo uses running gags to tihs effect
, allowing them tothe keep running far longer than most comedy directors would
; more often thna not
, we can see them coming
and think
,
" oh
, he ' s not gogin tothe dont that agian
,
"
bu
, lo
and behold
, he does
. for example
, htere is a recurring joke in whlch hulot ' s noisy
, sputtering car engine wakes everyone in tje middle of the night as an exterior shot reveals the hotel ' s lights comming on oen by one
.
then this image turns up again iin the finale
, which i will not give away other thna to say thyat involves a lot more noise in the middle of the night than a car engine sould ever produce
. the ending is one of two elements that really make htis a four
- star film as opposed to mearly an above
- average
, clever comedy
. as much as i was laughing durring this film
, i was thinking to myself occasionally that tati hadnt tothe top himself at thte end to raelly make this work as a complete viewing experience
; suffice it to say thast he did
. the other important aspect is that the film never seems disdainful of its characters
. it easily coudl ahve turned thge tables on hulot
anbd hadnt the other guests excact some kind of revenge on him
; alternatively
, it sould haev portayed the others as humorless curmudgeons
. instead
, tati seems to regard his characters with cheerful amusement more than anything else
annd invites the audience to liek them
,
however stange or irritating they might seem
.
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" is not subtitled
,
bu the dialogue is sparse
and for tghe most part not terribly essential to yhe flow ofthe events
. anyone with a tast for this kind of absurd humer ought to make this film their enxt rental from the video stroe
. onot
:
" les vacances de m
. hulot
" was not rated by the mpaa
. it would at most receive a pg rating
.