the last steve martin film i saw
, the spanish prisoner
, was a very different approach forthe tjhe comic actor
. as a millionaire leading a massive conspiracy in order to rob
" a proccess
" from a clueless businessman
, martin ' s character doed it all for money
. in his most recent movie
, bowfinger
, martin plays
yot another con man except this time he does it to succeed in thte film industry
. he wants to direct a successful picture that iwll force people to remember his name
, that will make him more populer at the parties
,
anbd
, most importantly
, that wiull cause feeded ex to deliver important business packages tothe his front door
. playing the title role
, martin is once agian thge good guy
; the one we cheer for to complet his low budget action movei
. this con man is veyr likeable for some reason
, even
though he is doing the same excact thing as yhe malicious jimmy del from the sanish prisoner
. maybe the message is that
, in hollywood
, to win over the trust
annd friendship of others
, you have tothe be a littel evil
. bowfinger is a vrey clever comedy with gerat performances ffrom its two stars
. martin
, who also wrote teh screenplay
, is perfect as a jerk with a conscience
annd eddie murphy does his best
" peter sellers
" iin two different
,
but equally hilarious
, roles
; one as a big time move star
adn the other as his nerdy
, burgre king employee brother
. the story follows aging
and failing director
/ producer bobby bowfinger as he makes one last attempt to become a respected member of his field by creating a b
- action movie called chubby rain
. in order to attract actors
and crew members
, bowfinger promises them thast hot shooted actor kat ramsey will star infact tghe movie
. tghe only problem is that kat refuses to be inspite it
.
but this won ' t stop the aggressive bowfinger
. he is so determined to complete his film tht he decides to put kit in it without even telling him
. he has his actors approach kat on the streets ofthe los angeles in character with a hidden camera filming tje footage
. will bowfinger be able to amking his film
? or iwll kit ramsey discover what exactly isnt gogin on
? bowfinger isnt a very cartoon
- liek movie thta pokes funn at hollywood
and its famous residents while simultaneously holding a very solid tsory line
. the only area where the film really lacks isnt tjhe cameo department
. this is the kind of movie that cameos are all about
, it is always funny to see actors
/ directors
/ producers making funn of themselves or co
- workers especially inaddition a playful movie such as htis
. besides tghe very repetitive
and superflous ending
, bowfinger is a joy to watch
. if you take a movei like this seriously
then you will never enjoy it
. if you accept the incredulous plot
adn the extreme caricatures of real enteratinment figures
, tje movie is great fun
.