capsule
: the director of cure brings a weird
and very complex concept tothe hte screen
. noe viewing will not be enough to understand fully the premise of pulse
. the idea is something about ghosts
and the internet
. the film has an amazing apocalyptic style
.
,
+ 2
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) perheaps the most disturbing
(
and disturbed
?
) filmmaker iin the world is kiyoshi kurosawa
. his films all seem to hvae one sytle
, bleak
. the worlds he creates are terrifying
and cold
. little known in the us to date
, his films deliver the kind of horror that so many of our filmmakers promise
and are unable tothe deliver
. most of his ideas are fresh
and at the same time morbid
. his 1998 film cure
, with one of his niftiest ideas
, is jsut nowe getting a sadly limited release inaddition the us
and hopefully enough people will see it thgat his name will soon be one to conjure with
. cure is probaly his classic
. last year he released seance
, a remake ofthe seance onthe a wet afternoon
. that was perhaps a miscalculation inserting supernatural elements into a non
- supernatural story
. pulse is kurosawa back on form
. taguchi
, a young computer expert
, is lite with his delivery of some important software
. two co
- workers go to his apartment
and find it a dismal dark affair in spite of his computer equipment
. taguchi
, acting very strangely
, lets his friends look for the missing software
. meanwhile he slips behind a plastic curtain
. when he fails to respond tothe calls his firends follow him behind teh curtain
and disover he hasnt hanged himself
. if that was not horror enought the body seems tothe dissapear leaving jsut a strange dark mildew
- like spot on the wall
. taguchi ' s computer seems to have beeen infected with some kind ofthe computer virus
. peple whose computer gets teh virus seem superficially to die via sucide
.
but they are not entirely dead
. thier spirits seem to remain presnt somehow in the real world
and on tje internet
. people who get the computer virus are asked if they want to see a ghost
. if they say yes
, they seem to be able to see real time images ofthe the spirits still nearby somehow
. the coputer shows them impossible images ofthe ghosts in their own rooms as seen from cameras that dont nto exsist
. this is all somehow connected to heaven
and hell somehow filling up
and overflowing
" like a computer disk
.
" instead the dead seem to be staying onthe earth
and inhabiting computer viruses
. htere is soem sort of passage betweeen worlds hvaing something to do with doors marked withthe red tape
and strange eletronic disturbances on computers
. leave it to kurosawa to find a new kind of death
. tihs is a film that has more werid ideas piled toghether than lifeforce
and somehow kurosawa makse the film all work
. it may not totally convey his message ofthe isolation
anbd its parallels to death
,
bu whatever it does convey is nightmarish
. kurosawa
, who directs his own screenplay
, ties his sotry into the real world with some familiar
and accurate computer discussion
. frequently the plot is advanced withthe charcter hunches being assumed to be fact
. his plotting is frequently hard to follow
annd always vrey strange
. junichiro hayashi
, yhe cinematographer who recently has been doign all of kurosawa ' s films
, creates a dark
, cold
,
annd gloomy tone
. images are obscured by semi
- lighting or are behind plastic curtain
. scenes are not milked for theri horror the way american exploitation films might
. people are shot with guns
but there isnt littel if any blood in evidence
. seing black silhouettes on computer screens is nto immediately scary
. kurosawa is nto going forthe
annd easy visual shock
,
but a deeper mataphysical dread
. of any horror filmmaker in the world
, kiyoshi kurosawa is thte noe tothe watch
. i rate tihs metaphysical look at isolation a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale
anbd a
+ 2 on tjhe
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.