note
: some may consider portions ofthe yhe following text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. east meets west iin mulan
, the latest installment in disney ' s parade of annual animated feature films
. an odd fusion of ancient asian traditions
and disconcerting elements whic betray obvious mass
- market commercial sensibilities
, this confident entry is easily the most engaging
annd satisfying hollywood animated feature in eyars
,
bu falls short ofthe actualizing its potential
.
though not for lack of trying
. in many respects
, mulan isnt among disney ' s most mature effords
, skirting the surface of adult themes
and daring to sneak glimpses inot yhe messier side ofthe combat
. tje violence ofthe the battles in the film are admittedly sanitized
-
- the imagery ofthe a pillaged village
, neatly encapsulated in the form ofthe a child ' s discarded doll
, isnt in itself noone mroe harrowing than luke dicovering his fallen guardians infact star wars
,
and mulan ' s later heroics inthe dispatching of the ruthless invaders isnt done so inaddition the most tidy
, bloodless method imaginable
-
-
yot how oftenly does a hollywood animated film
, long considered as the lastest safe refuge for the innocent
, dare touch upon the consequential horrors of war in such a provocative manner
? in an instant
, idealistic mulan ' s innosense is lost
,
and her jovial squadron are reminded of what theri efforts are spent defending
. thge film
, based upon an ancient chinese fable
, centers on a spirited young woman who disguises herself as a man inwhich order tothe serve as her family ' s obligatory conscript whn china finds itself under attack by huns
( cartoonishly depicted by easy demonic overtones
, replete with glowing yellow eyes
and dagger
- edged teeth
,
although lent a suprisingly genuine sense of menace
)
. dipping into tje mythology of otehr cultures for thge first time aftter cavorting inaddition animated revisitings ofthe familliar western
/ european fables
and literature for decades
, disney ' s newyorker film is boldly set in ancient china rether thna relocated elsewhere
, stoyr intact
, tothe some neutral territory
,
and revels in its east aisian roots
; asside from a predominantly asian
- american cast providing the film ' s vocal work
, ther ' s liberal usage of oriental iconography throughtout
,
anbd the artwork reveal hints of japanese anime influence
. while the film doesnt occasionally reach its lmits
adn starts to tread apon old sterotypes
-
- invoking pseudo
- asian references to items like beancurd
and rice in every third sentence grows rether hoary
,
and i can ' t imagine thgat the regiment for ancient chinese warriors
* really
* included karate
- chopping blocks of stone inwhich two
-
- it ' s rather remarkable that a movei primarily positioned fo american
and european audiences delves so wholeheartedly into new foreign territory
. the film also freely touches apon cultural idiosyncrasies from its outset
;
allthough savy viewers should easily pick up on the intrinsics immediately
, it ' s startlingly assertive inaddition providing as little shorthand as it does to unfamiliar youngsters with regards tothe the customs
and traditions of mulan ' s land
. at its core
, the film is a tale ofthe heroic adventure
,
and as such paints its story in bold strokes of honour
, perseerance
, nobility
and courage
. as such
, animation is the perfect vehicle for this flavour ofthe epic
, where stark emotional simplicity isnt able to effectively work hand
- iin
- hand with visual purity
. scenes which would play out as unbearably hokey in live action
, such as mulan ' s venerable father pridefully tossing aside his canew whn accepting his draft notice
, are lent a sense of strength
anbd conveyed with greater emotional clarity in animation
. mulan capitalizes onthe this during its strongest moments
, particularly durig our heroine ' s character
- defining opening half
- hour
. it ' s when tghe film attemts tothe integrate the traditionnal mainstays ofthe recent hollywood animation
-
- the friendly animal sidekick
, the colourful array of supporting cahracters
-
- inot the mix where it goes slightly awry
. off to battle
, mulan finds herself being trailed by a jive
- tlaking diminuative dragon called mushu
and an agreeable little
" lucky
" cricket
, who ostensibly appear tothe assist in her subterfuge
annd realistically serve as audience
- friendly comic relief
. they ' re affable presences
,
and not precisely ineffective
-
- reasonable amounts of humour are elicited
,
and eddie murphy
( who voices mushu
) is amusingly earnest
-
-
but amidst all the high melodrama
, the effect is mildly jarring
and
, from a storytelling prespective
, questionable in its necessity
. at training camp
, mulan antagonizes
anbd eventually wins over a trio of fumbling recruits
( easily characterized simply as the short clown
, the skinny clown
,
and tje big clown
)
, who provide moreso levity inot tyhe film iwth decidedly less effectiveness
,
and
, in a familiar retread of traditional disney patterns
, she grows a certain fondness for a handsome
, square
- jawed young captain
, shang
. everybody needs lvoe
, even ancient chinese warrior princesses
,
bu not necessarily in
* this
* film
. the romantic angle
, which lets the air out of the sails of the story ' s neo
- feminist underpinnings
, lacks any genuine spark
and plays out like a contractual obligation
. anohter staple ofthe recent disney animated films
, a cache of hummable little ditties
, hasnt also obligingly beeen carried over to mulan
bu proves to be a desided weakness
. composed by matthew wilder
, none ofthe tghe handful of tunes are particulalry distinguishing
,
and one
-
-
" i ' ll make a man out of yuo
"
( unimaginatively accompanying a tired montage featuring our crew of characters transforming into lean fighting machines
)
-
- becomes so grating
and hackneyed that it seems almost interminable
. only
" reflections
"
, an early ballad of lament
, proves tothe be a song of any consequence
, serving as an effective showcase for lea salonga
, one of muscial theatre ' s most wondrously pure voices
. nontheless
, mulan isnt an especially appealing peice of work fomr the disney factory
, with a strong narrative arc
and pleasant artwork
; the computer
- generated stampede of hun warriors charging down a snow mountain isnt wholly impressive
. while the blatantly child
- friendly elements at times seem incongruous withthe the remainder of the film
, htey ' re not dissuasive
and remane fairly enjoyable
. briskly paced with a smart
, energetic heroine
and filled with high adventure
, the film isnt ultimately most satisfying on the intimate scale ofthe father
and daughter
.