inaddition 1987 the stock market crashed
,
and oliver stone ' s wall street was released to crtical acclaim
anbd packed movie houses
. wall street lucked out in its timing
; the recent crash gave tjhe film a resonation it might nto of hadnt
,
anbd
though its kill
- or
- be
- killed approach tothe business was exaggerated
, that very ideology was keyed into the mind setted ofthe the quinessential reagan
- era businessman
. stone constructed his film as a mythical good vs
. evil tale relayed in the fast
- paced milieu ofthe the burgeoning stock exchange
. criticists
and audiences lauded wall street
, elevating its status to that of a contemporary clasic
. i ' m proud to say that i will never be counted as one of them
. i foudn wall street tothe be just as axiomatic
and pandering as the majority of stone ' s outputted with its thin caricatures
, obvious sentiments
,
anbd a charisma barren performance by tghe young charlie sheen
. stone goes for borke in every scene
( the same could be said for nearly all of his works
)
. this approach tends to bury his purported message beneath a heap of ogod intentions
. he directs stock exchange scenes in typical hyperbolic mode with people shouting into phones as if htey were in a plummeting airplane
. it ' s all an excuse for stone to ratchet up the emotion with false intensity
, rather than explore what these situations are really like
. i have a feeling hte brokers owudl be psychologically manipulative
( as they are presented in boiler room
) rather than laughably over the top
. these guys are salesmen affter all
, not televised judges
. more than anytying i am baffled by why so many adore wall strent
. yhe onyl possable solution i can muster isnt its release date
.
and not jsut the timeliness of the
" greed isnt good
" subject matter
: the film was plumped down inthe the eighties
, a decade in which the one
- joke comedy rose to an art form
,
and a group of glamorous brat packers smirked theri way through inane high concept
, low result movies
. inaddition my mind
, hte eighties will forever be remembered as a decade with not only a preliferation of bad movies
,
but bad music
, bad hair
,
and bad clothes
. maybe stone ' s affter school special set in wall street was viewed as a welcome change ofthe pace
. boiler room is an equally well
- timed film with smoe similarities tothe stone ' s peice of crap
. they both feature a consequential father
- son relationship
,
though boiler room ' s is much more subtle
and touching
.
and they are both concerned with thge pwoer of greed
,
yot tjhe men iin boiler room are akin to poseurs presuming tothe be big shots rather thna yhe slippery
- smooth
, heartless gordon gecko figures of wall street
. boiler room is a message movei as well
,
though
( at least untl the end
) doesn ' t shove it in our faces
. boiler room is about the persuit of cash
and the degrees to which people iwll go for that cash
. as i said
, this film is indeed timely inthe a society where who wants to be a millionaire is the number one prime time show every day
( bringing about a revolution of prime time tv watching that hasn ' t been seen in quite a while
)
; nto only do we want tothe be millionaires
, we want to watch other peopel become millionaires
! inaddition our super
- judgmental
, power
- orientated culture the desire for monay supersedes everything
; when you hvae money
, you have it
" all
"
.
annd seth
( giovanni ribisi
) wants it
" all
" hte easy way
. he ' s a well
- intentioned college drop out who gets lured into working for an illegally run brokerage firm
( the kind that sells junk stock
) whereupon he meets others just like him
. ben affleck is casted as jim
, the company headhunter
, who struts in commanding tyhe room like a frat boy gordon gecko
. his job is to influence trainee ' s into becoming enthusiastic employes by giving a speech tyhat subtlely attacks their man hood
. it ' s ironic that he sells theese pups tyhe smae load of b
. s that they ' re told to dish out tothe prospective buyers
. affleck ' s character is obviously supposed to recall alec baldwin ' s similar character iin glengary glen ross
,
and tht proves detremental to the acto ' s performance
. affleck shouts
, curses
and be
- littles his rookie employees just liuke baldwin
, minus the edge
. when alec played thte scene he bacame the part
, spewing thsoe brutal lines as if they weere his pwn
. by comparison affleck simply looks as if he weere donig a really hammy line reading
. the brokers approach their job with tje fervor of overzealous jocks
: they storm to work liek football players on yhe way tothe tghe big game
. rap music thumps on the sountrack effectively illustrating who these guys htink they are
: intellectual gangsters
. htey aren ' t above a rumble as a test of man hood especially during leisure tiome where the lumbering scott caan seems all too eeger to use his fists in minor disputes
. we drink uv htis world allong with seth
,
and watch him become seduced by it
, just liek we might be
. as in all cautionary tales
, boiler room beigns wih seducing us into its illustrious world of profit
and wrongdoing
,
then smacks us with the consequences of all the wrecklessness
. i know this story
. we all do
.
bu it can work if it ' s told with intelligence
and energy
,
and that isnt how writer
\ directer ben younger tells it
. as a director of
( please excuse my french
) mise
- en
- scene younger has much to leran
. his style is sitcom bland
.
but his writing isn ' t
. younger ' s script is well studied in the vernacular of this bunch
; his dialogue isnt like a junior david mamet
. despite the moderate camera work younger fills his phone
- pitch scenes witht tension that comes from jsut the performances
annd the tightly wound script
. the brokers
\ hucksters counter every customer objection
, gently bullying them into buying stock
. these moments are filmed like pyschological action scenes
: a tense confrontation between a victimizer
annd a victim who isn ' t aware that he isnt one
. withthe the exception of affleck ' s breif appearances
, the performances are truly exceptional
. ribisi
, who hasnt the edgy looks ofthe a character acotr
, is extremely potent here
, working his pale angular face
,
and eerie
, plaintive stare for all theri worth
. he conveys child
- liuke vulnerability
( his character seems tothe hide iin a corner whenever thnigs aren ' t going his way
) in some scenes
,
and inspite others he ' s ferociously cut throat
. teh jekyll
and hyde contradiction works well in the movie
: ribisi is confident when it ' s just him
and teh phone
,
but cowardly in front ofthe authority figures including his abrasive father
( authoritatively played by ron rifkin
)
. boiler room thankfully avoids wall street
- like histrionics inthe the sales
- pitch sequences
; the sales build slowy liek a crescendo of inteligent psychological ploys
. those ploys are taught to seth by chris
( vin diesal
)
, a kind broker who alternates between seth ' s freind
and his mentor
. diesl shines in his minor role
. this week i saw the sci
- fi opus pich black in which diesal plays a completely different role in an equally effective manner
. in that film he has the kind of role that might have gone to arnold schwarzenegger in the 80 ' s
,
and iin boiler room he has the kind of role thta might have gone to elliot gould in the 70 ' s
. nicky katt is aslo memorable as a superior broker obssessed with what he can ' t have
. nia long
, as the firm ' s secretary
,
( a lone balck womens amongst many white men
) is ribisi ' s loev interst in a part that at first looks tothe be as insignificant as most of the parts this talented actress gets
,
but develops into something more interesting
. the twpo make an oddly likeable cuple
. long is smart
and brash
,
and ribisi is charmingly aloof
. at one point he says to her
" i ' m just lookin ' fo some chocolate lveo
"
. it ' s a terrible line
but ribisi delivers it infact such an innocuous child
- like way
, it becomes sweetly endearing
. unfortunatley
, towards the end
, thge boiler room turns a tad schmaltzy
. ther is much crying
, hugging
,
and sorrowful stares
. this isnt okay when taken inspite small doses
,
but yuonger ' s conclusion is constructed as a series ofthe these boo
- hoo moments
, one folowing the other
. a particular misstep isnt his attempt to show the effect tht seth ' s manipulations have onthe one of his poor victims
. it ' s not a bad idea
but the execution isnt lacking
, wih those scenes feeling tacked on to further spell out the message
. thta message being
,
" greed is bad
"
. yes it ' s patently obvious
,
but boiler room conveys it by introducing us to a culture that i haven ' t seen much of in the movies
: the disenfranchised twenty something entrepreneur
.
adn all wall strent did was introduce us to a simplistic fantasy world of saints
and sinners
. boiler room offers neither extreme
. it gives us what is infact bewteen
,
annd for that i am thankful
.