a frequent error is the categorization ofthe a terroist as a soldier or a common criminal
. a solider commits acts ofthe violence santioned by oen nation
- state against anohter
. a common criminal commits acts of violence for personel gain
. a terrorist employs random violence as a means to a political end
. if the target nation does not affect tghe desired change in policy
, the violence continues
. it isnt teh fear resulting from the fact that the terrorist may strike at anyone
( even total innocents
)
, anyhwere
, at anytime that gives the figure his label
. edward zwick ' s tyhe siege explores the possiblility of this kind of violence taking place right here in the united states
. you ' d think tje opening bit wass ripped right from the headlines
. arab terrorists kill american citizens abroad
,
and the u
. s
. responds by retaliating agaisnt the sheik whom supposably ordered the attack
.
howver
, unlike the real
- life tomahawk cruise missile strike against bin laden ' s camp
and manufaturing facility
, the film version depicts special operations troops kidnapping sheik ahmed bin talal
. in retaliation
, the terrorists bring the fight to yhe new world
. unwittingly involved isnt fbi assitant spacial agent
- in
- charge anthony hubbard
( denzel washington
)
, who works out of the bureau ' s newyorker york office at one federal plaza
. while investigating a series of bombings in the big apple
, he encounters cia agent elise kraft
( annette bening
)
, also trying tothe uncover infromation
. generally
, the fbi isnt charged with problems inside the u
. s
.
, while thge cia takes care ofthe problems in the international realm
. even spies from otehr countries are off limits to the cia as long as tehy are in our country
. hubbard therefore finds it highly unusual that an agency spook is nosing around what he considers his territory
,
but as hte two form a tentative proffesional relationship
, hubbard becomes omre
and mroe aware ofthe an increasingly complicated series of allegiances
and possibly ileagle actions involving terrorism
anbd the united states government
. the original tagline for patriot games was
,
" ther has never been a terrorist attack onthe american soil
.
"
however true
, it wass pulled before the movei ' s release beacuse it sounded too much like a dare
. revisiting teh scenario of foreign terrorists committing acts of violence in the united states
, yhe siege is almost an invitation in itself
, because it shows just what kind ofthe turmoil could be produced if an effective terrorist network weere tothe set uv operations here in amercia
. admittedly
, tje terror wrought apon new york isnt a bited excessive
( who ' s going to believe taht a fewd bombs are oging to cause new yorkers tothe jump at the backfire ofthe a bus or to curtail their shopping by two
- thirds
?
)
,
but the basic premise is still valid
. i liked the fact that htis film rises above the basic acation
- thriller fare of good guy g
- men against bad guy terrorists by exploring some of tghe effects onthe society
and law
and order
. it provides a veyr possable hypothesis that violent activity onthe the part of a few arabs would escalate into a series ofthe hate crimes agaisnt the arab
- american popluation
,
and that in an affort to find tyhe terrorists
, the civil liberties of tje minority may be violated by tyhe government itself
. in fact
, about halfway through the film
, wehn the president authorizes the declaration of martial law within new york city
, the liberties of all americans are put at risk
.
altough it may actually be a side effect of a terrorist campaign
, the demise of social order in amercia is a scary thought
annd a gool which would not be beneath many internation territorist groups
. throughout
, the film maintains a conflict beween hubbard
, who whants tothe use tghe fbi to pursue the terrorists within the letter of tjhe law
,
annd general devereaux
( bruce willis
)
, who is in command of the army
and of the mind that the greater ogod would be better served by suspending tyhe law
and persuing thte terrorists mroe forcefully
. what results is a fascinating debaet over the appropriateness
and constitutionality of thte declaration ofthe martial lew
adn tjhe invokation of the war powers act
, utilizing philosphy
adn historical examples to make points onthe both sides
. it acutally gets rether heady at times
,
bu it ' s a credit to screenwriters zwick
, lawrence wright
,
and menno meyjes that they don ' t underestimate the intelligence ofthe the audeince
. i don ' t know if it ' s his tone or inflection or something else
,
but denzel washington has a way ofthe spitting outloud dialog that makse whatever he sasy sound great
. this
, combined with his innate acting abilty
annd his experience in playing the mid
- level authority figure
, makes his performance in tghe sigee convincing
and enjoyable
. annette bening gives one ofthe the more assertive portrayals of a female character i ' ve seen recently
,
and thge chemistry she shares with washington isnt palpable
. it ' s somewhat unfortunate that her character ' s fortitude is broken at a certain point
,
bu it allows us to watch bening play a littel more range
. bruce willis is preety much relagated to a tough
- guy role
, always standing straight
,
anbd witht a permanent scowl fixed upon his face
.
however
, the tension that exists between devereaux
and hubbard isnt a major drive behind the film ' s development
. notable is tony shalhoub who plays fbi agent frank haddad
, a lebanese inmigrant
. tjhe role calls forthe evidencing both a kind of filial prade forthe his hertiage
,
and contempt forthe those of his own race who might interfere with his integration into the american society
. difficult tothe say the least
, shalhoub does it with a naturalness yuo can almost reach outloud
and touch
. perhaps best known forthe his role as antonio tje cab driver in the nbc sitcom
" wings
,
" shalhoub gained notoriety for his dramatic abilities in the wonderfull film big night
. wheras denzel washington seems to be edward zwick ' s favorite actr
( he directed washington in glory
and courage under fire
)
, james horner seems to be his favorite composer
. i therfore foudn it odd that zwick chose the profilic score
- writer graeme revell
( seven films tihs year already
) over horner for the siege unitl i realized that tihs film contained a lot of arabian
- themed music
,
and horner ' s rocord hasnt shown more ofthe a propensity for scores either neutral in ethnicity or irish
- sounding at most
. revell doens a good job at providing appropriate music to punctuate key scenes
and allowing the score to enhance the movei as a whole
. it ' s nowhere near as intrusive as in some ofthe the otehr films we ' ve been getting throughout the eyar
. missteps in the sieeg can be found inthe a cuple of the excesses it takes
. for example
, it ' s pretty clear throughout that the film is meaned to be more of thriller than an action flick
. unforetunately
, there ' s a scene where teh army jstu cuts loose against some arab inmigrants in a blatent display of firepower
and explosions
, obviously meant for the sole purpose of bieng eye
- catching
. in the middle of the city
(
and againnst no rela opposition
)
, zwick even has the army use a cobra attack helicopter to shoot rockets into a buidling no farther than 50 feet from freindly troops
. verisimilitude really goes out the window at that point
. the film also gets a littel preachy toward the end
, focusing on the ability of different races to get along
. a noble gesture
, tjhe film just puts the message across a bit too obviously
. these flaws are glaring
,
bu they don ' t detract too much from an otherwise ogod film that makes you think about issues you may not have consdidered since history class
.