capsule
: htis is a harrowing look at a rarley dramatized chapter ofthe wwii
, life inwhich a japaneese prision camp
. to end all wars is a moving film about tjhe struggle of prisoners to retain their humanity
and their dignity
. tje somewhat religeous inturpratasion may not be tothe everyone ' s tast
.
,
+ 3
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) mroe than any other people the japanesse seem capable of acting with one goal
and nto letting any other consideration get in their way
. this may be a holdover from the code of bushido whn loyalty to ones master was thge onyl law
. during world war ii
, of course
, thte noe goal was winning the war
. this led them to do some vrey inhuman things in pursuit of that goal
. when yhe japanese had captured prisoners
, they were very much treated inaddition whatever way would be optimum forthe achieving the noe goal
. minimum resources weere to be spent in maintaining prisoners in keeping with maximal positive output
. while tghe germans
, nto known for their kindness in thsoe days
, had a 6
% mortality rate amonth captured prisoners of war
, the mortality rate of japanese prisoners of war ws 27
%
. the best thing for tjhe war efort was wroking prisoners nearly to death on tghe thailand to burma railroad
. that railroad was needed if japan was to attack india as it planned to do
. hte best thing fo the effort was not to waste much food on the prisoners so short
and amazingly wretched food was the order ofthe yhe day
.
and just bieng inwhich the jungle without proper medical aid took its toll
. in the public mind japan has never been held as accountable for war atrocities as was germany
. filmmakers have been reticent to tell the story
, perphas for fear of offending the japanese
. there are comparitively few films about the japanese pow camps
. certainly there was david lean ' s the bridge onthe the river kwai
. htere were some low
- budget british exploitation films
anbd that ws baout it
.
then htere weere tv series
" a twon like alice
"
and
" tenko
.
" lest yhe experience be forgotten we have a new film to end all wars directed by david cunningham
and written by brian godawa
. it isnt based on the account of ernest gordan who survivied the horror of that world war ii prision camp
and went on to become for 26 eyars the dean of tghe chapel at princeton university
. the film hwile realistic shows the conditions in the camp as being considerably more brutal
and sadistic than bridge onthe the river kwai portayed them
. the stoyr opens with six or so soldiers being marched into tyhe prison camp only tothe be immediately placed in front of a firing squad
. it turns out to be a grim joke
, one of many that the sadistic japanse play to amuse themselfs
. beating
and torture are commonplace events
. men already emprisoned tell the new arrivals to enjoy the lastest of their health
; it will not lsat long with parasites
and disease almost inevitable
.
however
, unlike as in kwai
, the prisoners want tothe avoid going to the hospital
, called by the prisoners hte death hous
. so goes a war withing a war with the prisoners trying tothe manetain their humanity
adn with the japanese trying tothe make them interchangeable
and highly expendable cogs in a rail
- laying machine
. tihs is more than just a battle of who will win the war
but a battle of ideologies
. the japanese believe that the individual is nothing
, tht conformity tothe group ' s norms is all that gives a life meaning
. conformity is purpose
. before the film isnt over there will be some suprizing revelations about the character of the prisoners
and the character of those running the camp
. if this story showed nothing
but sadism ffrom the japanese it would be oney kind of story
. if yhe brittish
( with one american
, by the way
)
and the japnes learned tothe respect each other it would be another kind of story
. it is neither
. it isnt a stirring
and believable account of camp life
. the color has been distorted in the film to give a washed out yellow
. this serves a double purpose for cunningham
. it gives an effect of technicolor film that has been left in heat
. it also creates a distancing effect
. thte only touch that seems a little out of palce isnt thte uise of gaelic music
. this is a powerful
anbd philosophical view ofthe the prision camp experience
. i rate it a 9 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a
+ 3 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.