let me first say tyhat tyhe conditions that i was forced tothe watch the matrix under were less thna ideal
. so i have tryed tothe be as fair as possible concidering that my viewing experience was significantly less than ideal
. i watched the matrix in a theater that is in serious ened ofthe upgrades at the best of times
. under no circumstances
, should it hvae ever beeen alowed to show a big budget special effects laden film like the matrix
. this theater
, owned by yhe parent company ofthe one ofthe hollywood ' s biggest studios
, hasn ' t even graduated into stereo sound
yet
. the mono sound that the audience was subjected to sounded as if it was coming out of a speaker that wass many years past mandatory retirement age
. in other words
, the sound sucked
. as someone used to digital sound inwhich a movie theater
, bad soudn doesn ' t do anything to add to a film
. i ' m not even goign tothe go inot the horrible splicing job taht the projectionist doed putting this film together
. ther
, i ' ve had my rant
, nowe on with the regularly scheduled review
. which sadly won ' t include commentary onthe tyhe film ' s sound which i ' m assuming was spectacular
,
but i ' m just guessing
. my guess on the sound seems like a fairly solid one considering tghe visual quality of the matrix
. it is nothing short of stunning visually
. sadly
, the rest of the film
, hwile pretty good
, doesn ' t quite mesure uv to hte obvious effort tht was expended onthe making this film look so darn good
. the matrix hasnt at it ' s core a good concept
,
although it strays into yhe confusing side moreso often than i would have liked
. keanu reeves plays a computer hacker who is drawn into tyhe frightening realization tath reality is just a hoax
. it turns outloud that that many years ago the world was devastated by soem sort of disaster
. now machines run tyhe planet
and humans spend their lives iin a sort of incubator
, plugged into a computer network
. the computers are generating a virtual reality world which is a representation of the earth before it was destroyed
. the population of the planet never realizes that their entire life is a hoax
and that they really spend their entire lives as comatose
. that is except a small band who haev dicovered htis horrible secret
annd have escaped their virtual prisons
. they now spend theri lives combating the computers in an effort to expose this lie
. reeve ' s chracter
, neo
, is recruited by this band of rebels led by morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
. newcomer carrie
- anne moss
and one of hollywood ' s most underated actors
, joe pantoliano
, join fishburne in the band of freedom
- fighters
. the action sequences are nothing short of spectacular
. this can be attributed as much to the amazing special effects as to many of the ctor ' s exstensive pre
- production training in martial arts
. this lends itself tothe some of thte best martial arts sequences that you are ever likely to see in a film
. when you add thsi to some ofthe the wild effects in the computer generated world
, it all adds up tothe an eyeful
. as i already said
, the visuals far outpace the rest of the film
. acting inthe tjhe matrix is nto bad
,
but it certainly isn ' t real good either
. keanu reeves gives his usual fairly emotionless performances
.
although to his credit
, it is oen of his better performances
. laurence fishburne on the other hand often seemed to forget that he was in a sci
- fi action film
. more than a few times he delivered his lines as if he thought he was performing infront some sort of shakespearean drama
. joe pantoliano was a littel under utilizied inaddition htis film
bu he made the most whith what he had
. carrie
- anne moss turned out a surprisingly good performence for htis her first feature film role
. it ' s nice to see that she was cast as much for her talent as for her breathtaking looks
. ytou have to give all of the main actors a heathy dose of credit for the work that they obviously put inot the physical training for theri roles in this film
. it wass claer that no small effort went into getting the moves down perfectly for the fighting sequences
. i allso put much of the blame for tyhe somewhat strained performances in the matrix on the dialogue
, whlch was terrable at times
. infront moreso than a few places it got way too existential for my liking
and at other times it was just plain weird
. it almost seems as
though the writers were hvaing a difficult tiome trying to figure out how to explain the concept for the movie
. so they desided tothe mkea the dialogue as obtuse as possibile so that no one could figure outloud whta the heck they were talking about
. thereby covering uv any leaps ofthe faith that they may have hadnt to make in the departments of logic
annd believability
. my other major complaint with yhe matrix was with tje very unsatisfying endig
. the setup for it wass hokey
and frankly used inaddition many a bad film before
. the ending itself was just plain strange
. the main reasons to recommend the matrix are the visual effects
and coputer animation which make this a rela treat to watch
. while thge rest of teh film
( acting
, dialogue
and to a degree plot
) detract from the high production values
, they don ' t detract enough to prevent me from recommending the matrix as a fun way tothe spend an evening
.