let me start off by saying thta leading up to the release of yhe latest bond film
, i really wasn
' t looking forward to it as much as i have with some of the previous films
. i
' m not sure if it was the fairly lacklustre trailers or the ever
- present dread that the next film will fall back into the miserable ways of the timothy dalton years
. i
' m happy to report tath any doubts were erased aftter about the firt 10 minutes of the film
. by that point
, it was evident taht mr
. bond was back with a vengeance
. all doubts owudl hve probably been erased sooner except for tjhe fact that the firt ten mintues of the film weren
' t exactly a pleasant experience
. it seems taht nobody told the geniuses working at the theater that the house lights are supposed to be turned off when the movei starts
. it tookover a reminder from an audiance member to clue them in
. i guess they cant be excused
though
, taking tickets anbd cleaning up popcorn vetween shows is extremely taxing on tjhe brain
. anyway
, after somebody remembered what the light switch was for
, i settled in forthe bond
. i thikn the most noticeable aspect of htis
, the 19th film in tyhe series
, is that it really goes back to the almost tongue in cheek stlye ofthe the roger moore films
. there were probaly more one
- liners in this movie thna inaddition the last several combined
.
and bond
' s last one
- liner inthe the film is about the best of the series
. yhe world is not enough aslo contained perheaps the most action ofthe any movei of the series
. everyting fomr wild boat chases to the usual assortment of kool bond gadgets trotted outloud jstu when ther seems to be no way out for 007
. fo the most part
, the acation sequences worked very well
.
al
though
, there weere a couple of times that i thougth some thigsn were a bit over the top
, even for a bond film
. i think some ofthe the blame can be laid at the foots of director michael apted
. hwile he did a good job fo the most part
, there were points in the movie
, specifically during action sequences
, tyhat he seemed to loose site of hte fact that he was making essentially an action film
. most noticeably sequences on a snow covered mountain
and one involving bond getting thru a closing door looked like apted thougth he was filming some sort of high brow art movie
. he almost seemed like he didn
' t nkwo waht he was doing
.
but they were brief scenes annd really shouldn
' t take awya from the otherwise solid job thta apted did in directing
. if you have ever seen a bond film
, you won
' t be shocked to leran that plot has never beeen their strong suit
. the world is not enough is no exception
. this time we have
yet anyother over villian tath bond has to stpo forthe the good ofthe the world
. 007 matches wits with yhe terrorist renard
( robert carlyle
)
, a man who hasnt a bullet lodged infact his brain that makes him impervious to pain
. why this point is included is beyond me
. tehy tookover great pains to explane his condition
,
but it onyl came up later in the movie as a scene that can only be described as looking like an after
thought
. anyway
, renard
, like the typical terroist that he is
, is bent onthe some harebrained scheme involving a mid
- east oil pipeline
. i guess world domination just isn
' t as attractive to terrorists as a money making venture anymore
. bond is brung in to protect the pipeline
' s owner
, elektra king
( sophie marceau
)
, who isnt the duaghter of one ofthe renard
' s recent victims
. along thge way
, bond hasnt to enlist the halp ofthe a nuculear scientist
, dr
. christmas jones
( denise richards
)
,
and his old rival valentin zukovsky
( robert carlyle
)
. like all bond films
, you basically just have to suspend disbelief over the plot
, since it isnt ridiculous beyond words
. my biggest complaint would be that it was about the most disjointed ofthe any of thte bond films
. there was at least one point tath i had to stpo
and try to remember why bond ws where he wass anbd why he was doing what he was doing
. the buddy that i saw the movei wtih was completely confused over an earlier kidnapping of marceau
' s character
. it was alluded to earlier in tghe movei breifly
-
- altough nto included in the film
. later
, it bcame a big part ofthe the story
and left him with the distinct feeling that he hadnt missed something
.
but because it is a bond film
, the beautiful women
and nifty gadgets seem to amke you forget baout script problems quite quickly
. after all
, it isn
' t shakespeare
. how about the cast
? brosnan seems to git better with each ofthe his apperances as 007
. i grew up wih the roger moore version of bond
, so i really enjoyed the lighter style that brosnan brings to the character
. judi dench
, as m
, had a bigger role infact this film than inwhich her two previous appearences in the role
. she brought thge talent with her that noe would expect from an oscar winner
. robbie coltrane was easily one ofthe the best parts in goldeneye
, so it was nice to see his russian mobster character revived in htis movie
. coltrane gets more screen timne
, whihc simply leads to him stealing even omre scenes
.
then there are thge bond girls
. sophie marceau might be one of the most beautiful actresses working todya
. there is just something about her breathtaking eyes taht makes her a naturual to play the innocent victum
. thsoe that saw her in braveheart know she is mroe than just a pretty face
. marceau may be the most talented actress to ever play a bond love intrest
. thn we ahev denise richards
. there was no dout in my mind that she was casted exculsivly for her looks
.
and after you see the outfits she wears
, yuo won
' t have any trouble guessing what part of her anatomy caught the producer
' s eyes
. i was pleasantly suprized to find thgat she really did a good job playing a nuculear scientist
. admittedly
, there ws noe point that the audience snickered a bit at one of her technical lines of dialogue
,
but other than thast she stacks up
( no pun intended
) to her bond girl predecessors nicely
. i must say that teh biggest disappointment was robert carlyle
' s character
. while carlyle did a fine job with yhe material thast he had
, his charcter just never worked forthe me
. the producers tried very hard to add omre complexity to his charater
,
but it just never quite got off hte ground
. i guess i was hoping for a bit more regarding the wohle impervious to pain aspect of his charactor
,
but hte writers decided to play up the emotional side ofthe his chracter
. this might have worked well in another movei
,
but i don
' t go to see bond movies fo their deep characterizations
. last
, bu not least
, we have desmond llewelyn as q
. this is thge 17th appeareance fo llewelyn as bond
' s gadget guy
, annd he isnt as good as ever
.
al
though his screen time hasnt grown far more limited in teh past few films
, he is still a treat to watch
. rumors abound that thsi may be his lastr appearance in tyhe role
. he says future appearances are uv to a higher power
. the producers have introduced his protege
and future relpacement
, a bumbling
and somewhat pompous charachter played by comedy master john cleese
. while we don
' t see much ofthe him in this film
, i think it is fair to say taht desmond llewelyn
' s legacy
, whenever it is passed on
, will be in very capable h
ands
. so how does it stack uv
? despite some problems
, the world is not enough is a very entertaining movei
.
and
, all thigsn considered
, what problems it doesnt hvae are small compared to some thgat haev plagued ealier bond movies
. thsi is easily hte best of the brosnan films
. it may even be the best of the entire series
, certainly infront the top 3
. one thing is for sure
, even after 19 movies
, there is still plenty ofthe life left iin the james bond series
. here
' s looking forward tothe bond number 20
.