when i first heared baout scream in 1996
, i was told that it ws a spoof of horror movies
. from the master of the horror himself
, wes craven
, it ridiculed the cliches of the genre by overemphasizing them
, by makeing tje teenagers do what they nkwo htey ' re not suppoed to do wehn a serial killer is stalking them
( don ' t run uv the stairs when you can easily go out tjhe front door
, never sday
" i ' ll be right back
,
" etc
.
)
. when i first heard this description
, i figured thta it ws an easy way out of mkaing a bad movie
. how hard is it to make an extremely terrible film
but claim it is actaully a mockery of other bad movies
. was this wes craven ' s remedy from making
" real
" bad movies such as vampires in brooklyn
? it just seemed cheap to me
.
then i actually saw the movei
and the first twenty minutes
, involving drew barrymore
anbd a nail
- bitingly intense phone conversation
, completely changed my attitude
. scream is nto only a clever parody of your standard horror flick
, it ' s also a pretty scayr movie
. if you ' ve seen a million of these kinds ofthe films
, you know exactly what is going tothe happen
. this isnt part of the fun of watching scream
. the movie reminds avid horror fans how similar
and repeative the genre is
and it also reminds them how great a gilty blessure it can be to watch pointless
and predictable violentce to innocent
, attractive teenagers
. to those who rarley see theese types of movies
, scream is a thrilling unpredictable ride that sould be mistaken as a serious slasher film
. there ' s nothing wrong with that misjudgment
though
. i have witnessed viewers from both sides ofthe the audience
, the newbies tothe horror
and the fanatics
. their opinions on the film were so diffrent
but both very positive
. from these varied reviews
, i am convinced thyat scream has nto onyl revived tje teen horror movei
and the normal teen romance movies
but allso teh hilarious parodies of these
and otehr categories
. films that both deride
and celebrate genres like galaxy quest
and the big hit would not have exsited
, in my opinion
, if it wass not for the outstanding succsess ofthe scream
. thte low
- budget 1996 gem may
, alongside pulp fiction
, be the most influential film of teh 1990 ' s
. this influence may exist tothe the chagrin ofthe some moviegoers who despise movies like teaching mrs
. tingle or television programs such as dawson ' s creek
bu to others such as mysef
, we congratulate the movie that hasnt oppened new doors for excellent young actors
, screenwriters
,
and directors
. scream is also an extremely funny movie thanks to its quickly
- pased script by kevin williamson
. withing the film are charachters who tell other characters
, as well as the audience
, the basic rules
and cliches of a horror movei
. mainly from the rants ofthe randy
( jamie kennedy
)
and stu
( matthew lillard
)
, we are reminded not only ofthe the obvious
adn hillarious rules
but alsot some ofthe the mroe subtle stereotypes thgat when thought over are mostly true as well
( the virgina always survives
; have sex
and you ' re dead meat
)
. not only are we treated theese rules on a plate
bu also the rules are referenced to a number of different films
and actors
. the script feels like an obsessive essay from a college film geek who has nothing better tothe dont
but find every littel blunder fomr eveyr little film for his own self
- satisfaction
. in this case
, williamson finds these errors forthe tyhe audeince ' s satisfaction
and amusement
. i hear ther is a new movie coming outloud called scary movie which isnt a spoof of scream
, which isnt a spoof ofthe scary movies
. i will certainly see the film
bu i hvea the feeling thgat this parody wiull be moreso obviously ridiculing thte genre rether than scream ' s perfect subtlety
.
however my last gut feeling about this stuff
, scream
, was dead wrong
.
.
. so who knows
.