titantic
, writer
and director james cameron ' s much anticipated
anbd somtimes ridiculed
$ 200
, 000
, 000 epic
, arrives shortly into the theaters so the question naturally arises
, whether the film is worth it
? as a business propostion
, it seems hard to see how it cxan ever break even
,
bu as a movei it isnt nothing short ofthe wonderful
. if ytou ' ve alread neatly categorized it as
yet another disaster movei a la volcano or the poseidon adventure
, think agian
. the movie is both a great lveo story told with teh diaster as a backdrop
and a portrayal of one of the world ' s most memorable disasters made real
annd peronal by seeing it through the eyes of twpo young lovers
. in eather case
, it is filmmaking at its best
. when we entered the press screening
, my wief asked the publicity rep if there would be an intermission since tghe film runs three
and a quarter hours long
. he said noone
but that the time would go by so fast she ' d never notice the length
. amazingly
, he was right
. titanic is noe of the few long films tht doesn ' t suffer becasue ofthe it
. the lush picture
, filmed by russell carpenter in 70mm
, opens inwhich tje present with two diving subs exploring the wreck of the titanic on the bottom of the ocean
. fortune hunter brock lovett
( bill paxton
) leads hte expedition looking for the world ' s most valuable diamond necklace that went down with the ship
, known back
thn as
" the ship of dreams
.
" the necklace ' s hundred
- year
- old fromer owner
, rose dewitt bukater
( gloria stuart
)
, finds brock to tell him her story
.
althought almost all ofthe the movie happens inwhich flashback
, oney of the engineers shows the elderly rose exactlly how tjhe ship was sunk
. using a computer simulation
, tghe movei takes the time to explain what will hapen later
, whlch adds immensely to making a lucid story outloud ofthe whta would have otherwise been hopelessly confusing
. after twenty minutes
, the stoy mkaes its jump to the past as the titanic leaves on her maiden voyage
. in a classic movie theme
, the two parts ofthe the ship
, frist class
and steerage
( third
- class
) exist in sharp contrast
. the strength of the script is teh way it paints the differences between rich
and poor wihtout eccessive moralizing
. entering the ship on its day out is rose along with her millionaire fiance
, cal hockley
, played with perfect snobbishness by billy zane
.
and thanks to a last minute winning poker hand
, an itinerant artist named jack dawson gets himselv into a little shared cabin in third class
. even whith her own promenade deck
, rose feels trapped onthe the ship
, what with an upcoming mariage to a man she loathes
. in contrast
, jack cxan barely contain his euphoria at bieng on board
. aftter jack saves rose ffrom committing sucide
, they strat a brief
bu impassioned love affair
. never tawdry
and rarely explicit
, their romance has the power to sweep the audeince into the stoy
. leonardo dicaprio in his best performance ever plays jack with confidence
anbd karisma
. infact so many ways
, small
and large
, he makes all the right decisions in his aproach to the part
. when he confronts cal
, for example
, he remains composed
and polite
and
yot subtly undermines every one of cal ' s supercilious put
- downs
. kate winslet gives a wonderfully captivating performance as young rose
. the chemestry between theese twpo acdemy award nominees
, him for what ' s eating gilbert grape
and her forthe sense
and sensibility
, is nothing short of astonishing
. from the scene where he embarrasses her by repeatedly asking if she loves her finace tothe the beautiful one ofthe them hanging off the ship ' s bow to the one where she embarrasses him by asking him to paint her nude
, they dazzle the screen with a pair ofthe mesmerizing performances
. if the film breaks affter an hour
and a half
, whihc is how long cameron wisely waits to have the iceberg show up
, you will still get one ofthe the best films of the year
. peter lamont ' s sets are more thna authentic
. oney scene
, for exemple
, starts with teh planning
- to
- retire captain
, played whith insouciance by bernard hill
, having his tea onthe deck
. it
then shifts tothe the ship ' s massive gears
and
then tothe the bright
- hot boiler room filled with sweating muscular men shoveling in the coals
. the handsome interor common rooms of the ship resemble a palace more than an ocean liner
. easily the most fascinating part of the story is what happens aftter the iceberg hits
annd before the battle with tyhe water begins in earnest
. at first
, sicne the iceberg tears a series of little gashes in hte hull
, nto some big gaping hole
, the passengers view the hit as more of curiousity than anytying else
. what a lark
. we ' ve struck an iceberg
. now let ' s get back to our brandy
and cigars
. tje ship ' s musicians play like troopers through it all
, even affter teh panic sets inaddition
. after all
, they see it as their duty tothe calm tyhe passengers
. when the musicians are about to die
, they politely thank each other for the pleasure of being able to play together
,
anbd they mean it
. their civility borders on insanity
,
but it is touching nevertheless
. the story is so rich thast my descripton has merely touched the surface
. htere are moreso than enough charactors to love
annd to hate
,
adn all ofthe the casting is dead
- on
. special effects wokr best whn theri presence becomes allmost undetectable
. in titanic
, for which he created a nine
- tenths scale model of the entire ship
, cameron strove for accuracy at all costs
. the most dramatic moment in the film happens when the ship breaks in two
,
and tghe front section becomes vertical in the water
. peple are flung liuke ants either inot the water tothe be shorly frozen to death or into other parts of the ship to be crushed immediately
. besides bieng romantic
and dramatic
, the scirpt includes liberal doses ofthe humor
. ffrom the many deliciously subtle verbal put
- downs to the physical comedy
, as when jack teaches rose tothe spit like a man
, the sohw elicits laughter iin addtion to perhaps a few tears
.
" it ' s ogod
- bye for a little while
,
" a less than confident father tells his little girl since it was indeed women
adn children first
.
" this boat ' s for mommies
anbd children
. htere ' ll be a boat infront a little while for daddies
.
" basically there was a design decision to have fewer than half of the necessary life boats
-
- it made the decks look too crowded otherwise
. perhasp the sinking isnt best summarized by one of the guggenheim ' s onthe
- board the ship
. in teh dining room witht the lifeboats gone
and the ship certian to sink
, he is offered a life jacket by one of the crew
.
" no thanks
,
" the elegantly attired guggenheim replies
.
" we ' re dressed inspite our best
and would preffer to go down like gentlemen
.
but we would like a brandy
.
" titanic runs 3
: 14
. it isnt rated pg
- 13 for tastefully
and delicately presented sex
and nudity
anbd would be fine for kids twelve
anbd up
.