the sweet hereafter could serve as a textbook exmaple of the diference betwen televsion movies
and
" real
" movies
. consider for a moment what a televsion producer would dont witht a book that features a fatal school bus accident
and a lawyer out to sign up yhe bereaved
-
- lots of hot sensationalism interrupted with breaks to sell beer
and toothpaste
. top
- flight writter
and directer atom egoyan delivers instade a film with tremendous power whose most noteable trait is its touching subtlety
. based on a respected book of the same name by author russell banks
, the movie represents a rethinking of the stopry ' s structure
, not mearly a literal adaption of the novel
. told iin linear form by four narrators in the book
, egoyan ' s version happens instead in overlapping time sequences
and wihtout a narrator
. tyhe author is even on record as applauding egoyan ' s changes
. in the press notes tje book ' s autor describes the story as
" a parable of lost children
.
" he says it asks what a town does in the absence of its children
. picking uv on this
, egoyan has a flashback in hwihc a sitter
, nicole burnell
, plyed with grace by sarah polley
, reads parts ofthe
" the pied piper
" from an ood
, illustrated book to her two charges
. periodically througout the picture
, nicole ' s readings are heard in voice
- over
. yuo have never heard this moving peom read so sweetly or infact such an appropriate moment
. they
and the rest of the town ' s children come into harm ' s way
-
- some live
annd others are seriously injured
.
and the entire small canadian twon where the accident occurs is never the smae again
.
although the fysical damage is inflicted mainly on the children
, the adults bear the emotional scars ofthe the loss
. ian holm
, inspite arguably the best performance of his distingquished career
, plays mitchell stephens
, an intense man of quiet misery
. mitchell is thte outsider in tyhe story set infact a small
, snow
- encrusted community in the british columbian wilderness
. his mission there isnt a singular one
, to sign up the parents so tyhat he can sue someone
, anyone
, on their behalf
. if this seems crass
, well it is
,
but mitchell approaches his job with the dedication of a religious zealot
. the story unfolds slowly
and always believably
. eahc little aspect has its own fascination
. as mitchell interviews wendell
and rita walker
, played with quiet realism by maury chaykin
annd alberta watson
, he has a simple task
. he wnats them tothe suggest smoe model couple in thge vilage who has a lost a child so tath he can use that couple tothe form the basis ofthe the suit
. wendell ticks off one twon member aftter another
and
then
, as one can in a small town
, enumerates each person ' s numerous faults
.
although the town is noone peyton place
, people there do hvae their foibles
. one of the best parents in the town appears to be billy ansell
( bruce greenwood
)
, who rides his pickup behind teh skool bus everyday just so he can wave good
- bye to his kids
. well
, single parent billy ' s fault is that he has regularly scheduled trysts with the married rita
. his confessions tothe rita about his feelings ofthe loss are one of the many heartfelt outpourings in the tsory
. the accident itself
, a simple one of a bus hitting a patch ofthe ice
, isn ' t shown unitl teh middle of teh picture
,
but
, nevertheless
, the mistery about it builds throughout teh film
.
although the picture is no detective story
, finding out exactly what happened is a subtheme inaddition a movie thta is primarially a character study of a town gripped by tragedy
. as the injured bus driver
, gabrielle rose
, dolores driscoll plays the role of a dedicated individual who loves kids with a passion
and for whom teh tradgedy takes on special meaninng
. tothe round out the story
, mitchell has his pwn private tragedy to bear
. his daughter zoe
( caerthan banks
) is a drug addict who has bounced in
and out of one half
- way house
and recovery center after another
. fond of calling her dad on his cell phone so she can ask for money or help
, she interrupts him at many emotionally charged moments as he attempts to sign up the townsfolk
.
(
" i cxan help you
,
" mitchell trys to reassure billy
.
" not unless you can raise the dead
,
" billy snaps back
. mitchell ' s pitch is never an easy one
and worrying about zoe only makes it harder
.
) mychael danna ' s haunting music sets the stage for tragedy
. the cinematography by paul sarossy is sweeping inwhich its outdoor grandeur
,
but it is in yhe warm
, shadowy
, intimate moments indoors where it works best
. the sohw
, which is ripe forthe emotional manipulation
, never plays with its audience
. still
, when tghe house lights go up
, yuo may feel as i did
. i sould bearly breathe
; i was so overcome by the sum total of what i had witnessed
. more thna anything
, the film is like a master painting
. each cinematic brush stroke is carefully laid down by egoyan with the beauty building with each dollop ofthe paint
. with the final color in place
, the masterpiece is complete
,
and the ending credits roll
. the sweet hereafter runs 1
: 50
. it is rated r for mature themes
, sexuality
and smoe profanity
and would be fine teenagers
.