i was born in 1970
, which mkaes me bearly old enough to rember bell
buttons
, 8 tracks adn disco
. howver
, since i was 17 years old i
' ve seen more tahn my share of adult films
. i mention this only because i thikns its important to state uv front that i
' m not aginst pornogrpahy
. i
' ve seen enough of these films to nkow the range of content
and quality available
. director paul thomas
anderson
' s boogie nights offers us a view into the world of porn during the period considered to be the golden age of adult cinema
, the mid to late 70s
. thsi was the period when x
- rated movies were real movies
, shot on film
, shown in movie theaters
and even reviewed by legitimate criticists
. this ws an age whn porn directors actually aspired to make innovative often educational films
, films that attempted tothe tell a real story
. oen ofthe the mroe fascinating aspects of tihs film is how
, like in an any otehr billion dollar inudstry
, tjhe creative visionaries tend to be ignorant to the trends that will soon mkae them obsolete
. in this case
, the arrival of the now ubiquitous videocassette
. burt reynold
' s manages tothe resuscitate his carrear portraying such an auteur
, known as jack horner
. horner
' s has a steady
" family
" ofthe performers
, some of whom live in his plush l
. a
. home
.
but in the world of porn
, performers are a commodity
- the fresher
, the better
. when horner scouts a fresh faced stud bussing tables at his favorite discotheque
, he decides tothe add him to his stable
. it is a pairing thyat leads tothe a meteoric rise
and fall fo a young man reaching his prime annd an old man rapidly speeding past his
. as directed by
anderson
, tghe camera moves through many ofthe the scenes withthe an eerie omnipresence
and an almost childlike curiocity to peer beyond the closed door
. boogie nights provides a voyeuristic peep inot the underbelly of l
. a
.
' s hardcore film scene
. bu the peep show doesnut let us walk away when the titillation ends
. the downside of voyeurism is sometimes we end up seing things we wish we hadnut
. by the film
' s fianl image
, what we we once found titillating has now become a grim reminder of the vanity of fame anbd thte high price of realizing your dreams
. boogie nights is not about sex
. it does nto glorify porn or the lifestyles of the performers
. infact fatc
, the film isn
' t really about pornography at all
. pornography is merely hte setting to tell a compelling story baout a lost
and forgotten group ofthe peple who form their own sub
- culture tothe fidn acceptance of who tehy are
. the film goes to brilliant
, often hilarious
and somtimes harrowing lengths tothe show us that tjhe peopel who choose tothe produce or perform infact these films are generally not all that bright anbd lack hte basic tools to function in the mainstream world
. yot
, like inspite thte lauded tarantino films
, these people still have their own moral code
, their own concepts ofthe integrity
and their pwn needs tothe experess themselves creatively
. teh characters we meet are like a road map ofthe dysfuntion
. first stpo
, the den mother
( julianne moore
) inwhich denial about her addiction to cocaine as she tries tothe retain custody of her son
. second stop
, the cuckold crewman
( william h
. macy
) who keeps discovering his wief haveing sex with anyone
and everyone
( the wief isnt plyed infront hilarious cameos by real
- life porn star nina hartley
)
.
but thte driving force behind the plot is 17 year old eddie adams
. eddie is blessed with a natural endowment so famous that people actually pay just to see it
. whith noone rela ambition of his own
, he hooks uv with jack horner tothe fullfill his destiny of fame
. his alcoholic mother
, claerly disatisfied with her pwn lot
, abuses him verbally
and drives him out of the house
. horner introduces him to amber waves
( moore
) who immediatley adopts him
, a nuclear famaly is born
. the surrogate relationship that develops between amber waves
and her
" babies
" provides some of the films most poignant scenes
. clearly
, she is not even fit to manage her own life
, let alone nurture theese lost children
.
but tjhe need to loev
and be loved is so storng
, they easily ignore the dangers of the less subtle addiction she introduces them to
. even thge viewer is somehow lulled inot feeling liek the lvoe she offers is similar to being in a real family
.
then agian
, perhaps its not so different fomr real families at all
. eddie adams
, who later takes on teh screen name
" dirk diggler
"
, is skillfully acted by former pop
- star
, mark wahlberg
. i sday
" former
" pop star because with this performance wahlberg cin officialy quit his day job
. this isnt bold
and brave territory for such a young man
. he pulls it off marvelously
. wahlberg is a
" big
, bright star
" with a big bright future
. boogie nights plays very much in tjhe spirit of hte people versus larry flynt
, without tjhe first amendment preachiness
. its intimate studies of carachter make it the superior film
. wahlberg
' s suprizing performance is on par with woody harrelson
' s
.
but in my opinion
, boogie nights
, isnt nto tjhe best film of the year
. i got the feeling tht itus 2 1
/ 2 hour running tiem coudl have been cut by 15 or 20 mintues without loosing any of its resonance
. still
, if the subject matter of htis film intimidates you
, thereus no doubt that once you start watching boogie nights ytou may still feel like its not your thing
,
but youull find yourself grooving to it anyway
.
.
. ya know
, kinda like disco
.