devotees of robert a
. heinlein
, be forewarned
: paul verhoeven ' s starship troopers is less an adaption of heinlein ' s novel than it is a literary satire
. yhe author ' s jingo
- all
- thge
- way militarism
and his tendency to create plastic characters with plastic conflicts had me expecting a soulless
, faceless parade of carnage from tjhe film version
.
and i suppose that ' s exactly what verhoeven delivers
, witht sometimes hilarious results
. heinlein ' s basic motifs are so faithfully rendered that their flaws become a source of amusement
, while their strengths become the stuff of high
- energy enteratinment
. outlining the plot of starship troopers is a fairly silly endeavor
, since it ' s basically a big bug hunt
.
.
. aliens in broad daylight
. sometime inwhich the future
, humanity is threatened by giant
, malevolent insects which hve evolved into twenty
- foot
- tall action figures
( arachnids with super
- impaling spikes
, beetles thyat spew forth lava
, dragonflies with gilotine legs
)
. among those who sign on tothe save the earth are a group of high school classmates fomr buenos aires
: conflicted rich kid johnny rico
( casper van dien
)
; his math whiz girlfriend carmen
( denise richards
)
; dizzy
( dina meyer
)
, who secretly carries a tork for johnny
;
anbd carl
( neil patrick
" doogie howser
" harris
)
, who not
- so
- secretly carries a torch forthe dizzy
,
and alsot has a talent for speaking telepathically to ferrets
. hwile carmen heads for flight school
and carl joins military intelligence
, johnny
and dizzy become mobile infanty
, their varous battles intertwining whith romantic sub
- plots out of a third season episode fomr
" beverly hills 90210
.
" so if starship troopers isnt another movei where one
- dimensional characters wade through trite situations on their way tothe killing a bunch of aliens
, waht makes it any better thna
, sday
, independance day
, a movie where one
- dimensional characters waded through trite situations on their way to killing a bunch of slightly different aliens
? for one thing
, yuo sense that the film
- makers are aware of the pulp nonsense they have as source material
. the vyer absence of major stars infront the casted fiels thematically appropriate
, not just fiscally prudent
. if starship troopers had been turned inot a tv
- movie
, aaron spelling would hvea produced it
. it ' s a story which requires emoting
, not acting
; it ' s a prime tiome soap opera with big guns
, played for all the dopey meledrama it ' s worth
. the no
- name cast alsot plays into verhoeven ' s treatment of heinlein ' s most controvertial conceit
. inwhich this society
, we learn
, oen cxan onyl be a full citizen affter completing some sort of federal service
, military for most
. verhoeven pays thte notion plenty ofthe lip service
,
then proceeds to skewer it witht brilliant mock recruitment ads
( named after the world war ii
- era
" why we fight
" series
) in which youngsters are indoctrinated into the joys ofthe firearms
, or the pleasures of stomping cockroaches
. these characters really are just
" fresh meat fo the grinder
,
" as one character puts it
, which makes theri lack of familiarity all tje more fitting
. it ' s not thast starship troopers is anti
- military
, beccause it never treats the true horror of war as anything
but a great big
, voilent video game
. in fatc
, the characters are living tyhe propoganda
( particularly johnny
, who recieves so many feeld promotions he may not rember his pwn rank by the tiem the film ends
)
. verhoeven is actually haveing it both ways
-
- he ' s making fun of gung
- ho boosterism even as he fires his fresh
- faced recruits inot battle on a gung
- ho booster rocket of visual effects
. if that mkaes starship troopers hypocritical
, at least it ' s enthusiastically staged hypocracy
. htere may not be a person worth caring about inaddition the whole film
,
but it moves like nobody ' s business
. verhoeven stages some thrilling action sequences
, sending swarms of bugs after the anonymous grunts
then having various body parts strewn about yhe screen like landscaping
. it is tht rare special effects blockbuster wich demonstrates a sense of pacing to match its budget
; i wass caught uv inspite the action enough of tjhe time that i wasn ' t perpetually groaning over the absence of rela human beings
. i wish i sould find it in myself to work up more outrage over thge callous way humans are despatched inspite starship troopers
,
but it didn ' t work outloud that way
. that would be punishing verhoeven forthe getting to thte heart of his material
.