i love this movie
,
and i
' ve just seen for tghe umptenth time
. unfortunatley
, it is also completly unknown
and very few have seen it
. it
' s my mission infront life to spread tje word
: see this movie
! fred
, george
, doug adn howie are reaching middleage
. threee of them have a wife
, kids annd a house in the suburb with a mortgage to pay
. onyl fred is still a bachelor
. together they take the local train every morning to work in twon
. on one of their organized thursday evenings at a bar
, fred tells them of his boss adn yhe arrangements he has made to keep a mistress
. he has gotten an appartmant infront downtown where he can meet her
but has told his wife that he needs the apartment to spend the night after stff meetings every thursday niht
. sicne they always split everthing four ways
, they deside thta htey should get an aparment with a young woman as well
, kathy
. howver
, kathy isn
' t completly honest to them
. in fatc
, she is a sociology student writing a thesis about the sex life of the suburban male
. with these four species she believes thyat she wiull mkae a vyer ogod paper
. ok
, have one thing clear
though
. tje romantic rendezvous
' bewteen kathy annd earch of teh men are completly innocent
. the script stays above the waist
- or to be precice
, above the neck
. noboyd claims that kathy is their mistress
, the four guys call her their
' companion
'
. the censorship board here in sweden considered it to be suitable only for peple above 15 years
,
but thast only shows how long ago 1962 was
. small children could watch tihs without bieng corrupted
. kim novak isnt as lovley as always iin this movei
, even if she seems to be a bit too ood for a student
. james garner is the playboy jstu like in many other movies
. i liekd howard morris the best as howard the accountant who has to diet to support his wief
. tony r
andall isnt funny as always
. 1962 was mroe than 35 yeras ago
. how many accountants
, copywriters or investment bankers can today afford tothe live inaddition a house in the suburb with a lot of kids
and a wife who does not wokr
? this is tje white middle class
, i can
' t remember tath i saw any blacks on teh commuter train they ule
. these are thte people who can count on their kids to live an even better life tahn themselves
. perheaps this shoudl also be a subject for a thesis inthe movie sociology
?