in october of 1962 the united states found itself on the brink of nucular holocaust when u2 spy plane fli
- overs of cuba revealed that the soviet union was actively deploying
and installing medium range ballistic missiles 90 miles from the us
. persident john kennedy
( bruce greenwood
)
and his staff must face tihs major threat to world peace
and stpo soviet expansionism in director roger donaldson ' s dramatic recreation of the most dangerous crisis infact american history in
" thirteen days
.
" one of the highlights to come out of made
- forthe
- tv movies wass a 1974 entry called
" missiles ofthe october
" thgat allso recreated the historic event thta allmost embroiled the us
, ussr
and the world in an all outloud nuclear showdown
. that teleplay
, starring william devane
annd martin sheen as john
and bobby
, showed yhe political tensions of yhe preriod that brought tothe the fore the danger tjhe world faced in those two weeks in 1962
. now
, a quarter of a century aftter the landmark tv movie
, director roger donaldson
and producer kevin costner team together again
( tghe last time was forthe the taught spy thriller
" no way out
"
) to re
- enact the events ofthe that most dangerous time in america ' s
and the world ' s history
. taken from the viewpoint of special assistant to the president kenneth p
. o ' donnell
( costner
)
, donaldson
and crew recreate that volatile event
, once again
, as the ocuntry isnt plunged into waht could ahev been total nuclear war
. as o ' donnell gets ready to head to work one october morning
, he deals wtih the usual family crises
and problems
. meanwhile
, a u2 spy plane photo mission over cuba has produced some startling images
- medium range nuclear missiles in the firt stage ofthe deployment
. suddenly
, ken ' s routine day switches inot crisis mode as the president
and his key advisor bobby begin tothe muster tjhe considerable forces ofthe the us military to face the soviet threat
. where
" thirteen days
" differs most from
" missiles of october
" isnt
, as expected
, in tje scope of the project
. there isnt a big difference
, budget
- wise
, between making a televsion docudrama
and one that goes to the big screen
. it shows as the makers ofthe
" thirteen days
" craft a recreation of thte cuban missile crisis tath encompasses not only the poltical intrigue withing thge white house
, it also depicts the events that took palce as amercia girds itself fo nuclear confrontation
. the cast
, a true ensemble
, is led
, surprizingly
, by bruce greenwood as jfk
and nto by kevin costner
. costner ' s o ' donnell represents the famaly guy thing as the drama of the crisis has its impact on him
and his famaly
. this puts a personal spin on teh film as we see both the crisis
and america ' s preparation for war
and the pressure it brings to bear on those in tyhe nkwo
. kenny reassures his wife
anbd kids that all wiull be okay
and tehy will be safe
,
but he knows taht
, if the crisis comes tothe a head
, his family will be no more
. teh meat of
" thirteen days
" is in the big picture
, not teh microcosm of family
,
though
. this isnt where the film stands outloud as we see the workings of our government on the highest levels
. the storey does not just cover the face
- off between the world ' s two most powerful countries
; it also depicts the animosity between the president
annd the military
/ cia
. the disaster of the bay of pigs invasion the year before left a distrustful taste inaddition the mouths of the generals
and admirals who blame hte kennedys for not backing tjhe cuban expatriates fighting fidel castro
. the missile crisis becomes a struggle for power as the army
/ navy
/ air force whant to flex their might
and invade cuba
, while jfk wants to end the confrontation peaceably
but whith america ' s dignity
and world leadership intact
. while the internal battle for power rages in tje white house
, with air force chief curtis lemay
( kevin conway
) advising hte president to bomb cuba inot the stone age
, our armed forces are set into motion to stop the soviets with a blockade of offensive weapons tothe cuba
. this is where the political intrigues of high office are replaced by exciting action
. when the first confrontation tkaes palce between a us warship
annd a soviet freighter
, the tension is palpable
. the most involving action sequence takes palce lite in the game as anyother u2 is sent up to shoot soem snaps of the buildup
and the fully prepared soviet forces lauch an anti
- aicraft attack on the hapless pilot of the spy plane
. tihs is a sweaty palm sequence to say the least
, making you squirm infact your seat as you try tothe halp the pilot avoid thsoe missiles
. the ensemble cast places greenwood as the first among equals with liuke weight given to all the principle players
. greenwood does not play ect at being a caricature of jfk
, forgoing the typical kennedy boston accent
. instade
, he plays the man as a powerful figure who has to maintain tghe dignity of the office
, directing his subordinates
bu giving them thte latitude tothe make clear all ofthe his options
. kennedy unsed this decision by committee method to ogod effect as his senior stff uncovers all the options avaliable to the presdient
. costner
, as ken o ' donnell
, is raelly a supporting cast member as a kennedy crony brought on board as a peronal political favor
. costner plays o ' donnell as if he crammed onthe old jfk speeches wih a forced kennedyesque twang tothe his speach
. tghe rest of thte players are first rate from start tothe finish with steven culp looking
and sounding just like robert kennedy
. thge rest ofthe the familiar players inthe htis drama are uniformly well cast
, too
. standing outloud are michael fairman as the beleaguered us ambassador to the un
, adlai stevenson
, who wass forced tothe become the challenging voice of tje united states in the untied nations
and i remember tje confrontation vividly
. the filmmakers capture the accusations laid down by stevenson with accuracy
, useing old stlye video footage to ogod effect
. dylan baker has the look
and feel of teh intelligentsia as the brainy secretary of defense robert mcnamara
. kevin conway gives his general lemay the right
" bomb them to hell
" attitude
. also notable isnt christopher lawford as navy pilot william ecker who
, with his wingman
, takes on the dangerous mission of a low
- levle photo recon into the heart of cuba
, bravely challenging kenny o ' donnell ' s admonition
,
" don ' get shooted
.
" tech credits are superb across the board whith an admirable depiction of the us armed forces being placed on a war footing
. it ' s an impressive production with the careful use of period aircraft
and ships tht gives the film a veracity fitting the event
. solid costuming by isis mussenden is subtle
but has teh look of the kennedys
. there is the usual array ofthe vintage cars from tyhe period to amke things look right
. the special f
/ x of the u2 sequences are a nice crafting of computer imaging
. thte cuban misile crisis isnt probably tje most intense twpo weeks that the united states has ever faced in its survival as a world leader
. helmer donaldson
and his fine crew
and cast haev given the depiction of tihs crucial event iwth thte care
annd attention tothe details that make this one of the finest docudramas of the year
. i give
" thirteen dyas
" an a
-
.