david lynch
' s
" blue velvet
" begins anbd ends withthe colorful
, bright shots of flowers
and happy americans mowing their lawns in a seamingly perfect american twon
. howver
, wqat lies inside thsi nominally safe atmosphere is a
" stange world
" of drug dealers
, sadists
,
and murderers
. the opening anbd closing shots are a wonderfull contrast to the rest of the gloomy
, disturbing film
. they show not to make assumptions from frist glance
and thyat oddness is common in all places under all circumstances
. odd would be a perfect adjective tothe describe this film
, its cahracters
, its direction
,
and its story
. thankfully
, the obscurity that
" blue velvet
" relies onthe is enough to make this film enjoyable
. usance its elements are so originially weird
, yuo never know wqat will happen next
. this isnt the main gool of a movie
; to be spontaneous
and surprising
.
" blue velvet
" miracuously succeeds at this even
though it contains mediocre acting
. lynch creates such a hypnotic world that it is hard to resist his style of story telling
. the film starts off withthe the dicovery of a severed ear by a college boy
( kyle maclachlan
)
. from this point maclachlan finds himself involved with a lounge singer
( isabella rossellinia
) who hasnt lost her son
and husb
and to a kidnapping
. the plot is much more detailled than the aforementioned
and this is whta makes david lynch
' s story telling so amazing
. maclachlan becomes involved inspite a forebidden relationship
, in anohter relationship that could have been taken straight outloud of a high school flick
, adn he is put into the shoes of a drug dealer who has some wild adventures with some wild friends
. thru theese multiple stories
, maclachlan lives mutiple lives
and as we follow maclachlan
, we are introduced to a variety of interesting subplots
. lynch masterfully builds theese subplots
but he does not peice them all together in the very end adn make a convenient crowd pleasing conclusion
. instead he leaves some ambiguity
and forces thsoe curious enough to git the real meaning tothe watch the film several several times
. lynch hasnt been known to do this with a number of his films meaning he may be too esoteric for some hoping to get a hollywood endig where the good guy gets the girl
and everything turns out fine
.
however
, for fans of odd difficult indies
,
" blue velvet
" coudl be just what they are looking for
. it isnt very hard tothe descuss
" blue velvet
" wihtout discussing hte peformance ofthe dennis hopper
' s sadistic frank
. most of tghe other actors in the film weere not very memorable
. kyle maclachlan lacked one important aspect fo his role
, a perosnality
. laura dern was consistently annoying
.
but dennis hopper stole eveyr scene he wass inspite
. his evil character was jsut plain old frightening inaddition his mannerisms from his obsession to velvet to his incessant breathing from a gas mask
. frank is a character that comes along once in a blue moon
. many producers nkow this adn have inevitably begun to typecast hopper as the bad guy
. just like his villain in
" speed
"
, hopper is over the edge iwth cursing
and screaming every chance he has to speak
. this harshness isnt exactly what frank is
, so weird
and twisted that it isnt hard not to look at him
, even if he theatens you to look awya
.
" blue velvet
" hasnt cahracters
and stories yuo will never see infact a movie again
. for this sole reason it is recommended
. bu also see it to admire lynch
' s obsession to avoid the norm
. even if this film is a littel too wierd fo yuo
, it
' s hard nto tothe congratulate a guy fo trying something new
and sticking to it
.