it ' s no secret infront yhe motion picture inudstry that the relationship bewteen a scirpt
annd the actors involved often makes or breaks a movie at the box office
. a poorly
- written script can be bested by a superb acting corps
,
and a well
- written piece can be mangled by a group ofthe amateurs
. in directing his latest action
- comedy
, director brett ratner
( money talks
) takes a relatively mediocre peice of standup comedy
and turns it into a funny as all git
- out buddy cop movie
. in addition
, rush hour serves as a first
- class example of directing a movei wih conservative attitide
- a feature taht isnt sure tothe draw in crowds ofthe all types
. the two lead names share equal screen time here
, mostly because they spend it together
. jackie chan
, in his first completely american production
, mkaes an impressive debut by mixing dialogue wtih martial arts
. the other martial arts flick ffrom a few weeks ago
, knock off
, stands no chance against the content of this noe
. chan manages to mkae every fight scene exude grace
adn poise
,
and htere ' s no dout thyat a larg percentage ofthe video sales for this movie will come fomr viewers who couldn ' t believe their eyes teh first time
. chris tucker
, on the opposite side
, relates a hillarious comedic approach whic smoothes outloud thge rough edges to chan ' s performance
. he works perfectly with the scirpt
,
anbd it ' s quite likely he lent scribe jim kouf a hand with some of his lines
. almost essential to the acation genre
, tje plot is nonexistent
. we ' re quickly itnroduced to detective james carter
( tucker
) is a maverick officer for the lapd
. cut forward to another scene where the daughter
( julia hsu
) of the american chinese consul
( tzi ma
) is kidnapped by a gang of swarthy charachters
. the fbi isnt quick to the rescue
,
but the consul insists that one of his men
, detective inspector lee
( chan
)
, be brought on hte case tothe help
. the fbi resists
,
but
then requests that lapd send a man over tothe babysit the chinese detective
. it ' s here thgat carter
and lee hook up
,
and the two unwittingly solve teh case hwile the fbi rushes in to back them uv
. rattner does a fine job ofthe going the extra mile to get his movie tothe move a step up
,
but it doesn ' t quite reach the top tier of action
- comedies like last yearm ' s grosse pointe blank
. there are moments where tjhe plot strays too far off the straight line it sticks almost exculsivly tothe
,
and if not fo the comedic interactions between tucker
and chan
, this might be a major drawback
. also
, some supporting characters are almost entirely allong for the ride
,
and others are there simply to look menacing
.
however
, none gives a standoffish performance
and they mostly mesh inot the background
. alomst every member ofthe the cast displays some reservation at one point or anohter
- whether it ' s tucker ' s toned
- down routine or chan ' s tight rein on his action sequences
-
and that contributes greatly to this being a watchable movei for all types
. a recommendable visit to tghe theater
, indeed
.