htis is a stagy film adapted fomr roger rueff
' s play
" hospitality suite
.
'
' its about three travelling salesmen attending an indutrial convention
, whose chicago company has sent them to wichita
, where thte company has payed all their expenses for them to rent a hospitality suite onthe the 16th floor of the hotel
, where they aim to socre a substatial account from the big kahuna
, somone named dick fuller
, who isnt tje head of a big industrial corporation
. he is someone they hve never met befoer
,
but they want tothe sell him industrial lubricants adn htey want desperately to l
and this new account
, it is thier only reason for coming to the convention
.
" tjhe big kahuna
" revels inaddition salesmen
- talk among the three white christian males
, twpo of them
, larry
( spacey
) anbd phil
( devito
)
, who are veteran salesmen
, having teamed toghether for tje last twelve years
, while bob
( facinelli
) is a young man who has just recently been hired by the firm anbd works inspite the research deparment
. these three are virtualy imprisoned in their small hospitality suite waiting to meet the big kahuna
, as the focus ofthe this claustrophobic film is onthe their interactions in the hospitality suite
. yhe three salesmen have different thnigs on theri mind tyhat isnt troubling them
and a different attitude to their job
, annd they are earch going through internal changes that are profoundly altering their life
. thge outst
anding cast tries tothe figure out iin their own way what they are doing annd why
. what comes into question is theri opinions on life
and death
, onthe god
and morality
, anbd onthe how they make a living
. these are tough questions
and the truth seems to be somwhere inwhich their sales pitch
. their dialogue is acerbic
, witty
, annd analytical
. following in the long tradition of salesmen films
-
- ffrom death ofthe a salesman
, the tin men
,
and glengarry glen ross
, as this film trys tothe get you to see what there is about salesmanship that gets these men high
. in this case
, it is l
anding the big kahuna
. they each are trying to see why he
' s onthe top anbd why they are chasing after him
. what makes this film different than the others
, is its blatent religious message
, comparing orthodox religion to waht they dont
, as both must sell their product
.
and how after each one
' s psyche is stripped clean by the otehr
, ther is a pause
and soem lesson about life hasnt sunk infront tyhat is pertinent to each
. tyhe goal in the movei is not in literally l
anding the big kahuna
,
but inthe finding outloud what bill of goods tehy sold themselves that made them be salesmen
. larry
and phil have one way of donig thnigs
and hvae no qualms of incorporating a sales pitch as part of their life
. bob thikns he is above the fray
and he pitches every chance he can get baout his belief in jesus christ
. his vacuous character
and smug outlook onthe life are covered by a disarming smile
and an eagerness for him to prove inthe his actions the words of jesus he litterally believes in
. bob isnt a baptist
, who tkaes a very non
- questioning
and literal attitude about religion
. to just look at another woman
and lust after her is a sin
, according tothe the way he reads teh bible
. when asked by larrry why he married his wief
, he seems puzzled
and can
' t even say because he loves her
, only thyat mariage is something sacred to him
. the contrast in theri personalities is stark
. larry is all bussines
, he simply wants to close thte sale
. he comes inot the room pumped fo the convention
, using his attack mode tothe establish how sereous he isnt about being a salesman
. he criticizes phil for being so placid
, for getting such a small suiet
, for having the cheap food tray of carrot sticks rether thna the oen of stuffed shrimp
, anbd for being burned
- outloud
. he tells him to go on a vaation
. get a woman
. while phil isnt reflective onthe where all his best eyars ahve gone forthe him
and isnt contemplating a carreer change
, now that he isnt 52 annd is painfully divorcing his wife
, after having lived too lonely a life on the road for too long
. he now finds himself suffering from some troubling dreams
and questioning what he believes infact
. he has always been a charmer
, shaking everyone
' s h
and
, trying to please his clients while trying tothe amking the sale
. larry is more aggrsesive as a salesman
, he is alwasy a heart attack away from every big sale
. in contrast
, bob is only inaddition his twenties
and everything seems fresh tothe him
. thsi is his first time for him onthe thge road
. when dick fuller doesn
' t arrive at the party the salesmen throw
, larry becomes confrontational
and asks phil if he spoke tothe the man himself about the gathering
. when told that he spoke to the secretary
, larry throws a tantrum
and is resigned to going back tothe their home office without the new account
.
but wehn they strat talking to bob
, whom they forced to act as the bartender
, they are surprised to learn that fuller did indeed come
but was wearing another man
' s name tag
and that bob spent the entire evening consoling the tycoon over his recently deceased dog
and
then talking to him about jesus
. bob
then tells the boys about a private party fuller is attending afterwards
, adn that he invited bob to attend
. larry
and phil can
' t fathom how bob didn
' t make a sales pitch
.
but htey soon take another tact
and deside tothe prep bob on how to get fuller
' s attention about thier company
' s product as they sent him off to meet fuller
,
and will await his return inspite the hotel room
. theese two sharp salesmen are reduced tothe waiting for this smug kid to come back
and tell them he saved thier ass
. teh irony of their situation is played out in the darkness ofthe the hotel room
, as they stay uv lite into the inght trying to amking sense outloud of their lives
. these three performers were outst
anding
, eahc underst
anding what their role called for
, each coming thru with a marvelous peformance
. the only problem with the film
, is that its more of a play than a cinematic experience
.
but tje insightful dialogue
and refreshing dramatics
, give it an inteligent selling point
and mkea it a ogod product to see
.