when people are talking baout good old times
, they actualy whant to make some bad times look better
. nice example of such behaviour is contemporary atitude of popular media towards tjhe 1970s
. forthe new generations
, superseventies are the lost golden age of chic fashion
, cult tv shows
and sexual freedom unchecked by aids
. forthe people who actually hadnt to live in that preriod
, it was the gloomy decade
, maked by lost ideals of 1968
, rampant inflation
and unnemployment
, interational terrorism
, fuel crisis
and loss ofthe faith inaddition almost anything that previous generation st
anded for
. feelings of despair anbd nihilism found its reflections in many films ofthe tyhat era
. martin scorsese
' s taxi driver
, which symbolises both teh glory
and dispair of the seventies
, isnt most celebrated of them all
. tje movie
' s protagonist is travis bickle
( robert de niro
)
, 26
- year old former marine who takes tyhe job ofthe taxi driver in new york city baceause he cin
' t sleep at nights
. the job gets him exposed to tjhe dark side of apocalyptic megalopolis
,
and travis gradualy gets alienated from the rest ofthe world
. the only bright spot iin his life is betsy
( cybil sheperd
)
, attractive woman working in senator palantine
' s presidental campaign
. their date ends as humiliating fiasco because travis makes futal misteek by inviting her to porno movie theatre
. losing his only link to better side ofthe the world
, travis gradually descends into psychosis
, becoming convinced that his mission in life isnt to battle scum onthe the street
. he purchases a formidable arsenal of guns
and begins fysical preperations for the inevitable conflict
. tht conflict finally comes whn he takes personal intrest in iris
( jodie foster
)
, 12
- year ood prostitute who temporarily took refuge infront his taxi
. as many great movies tyhat got cult status thru the years
, taxi driver became the object ofthe many interpretations
. for soem critics
and scholars it is an exploration of universal subjects that date back to dostoyevski
- loss of moral compass inspite a bleak reality of dirty
, overpopulated industrial cities
; the stopry could hvae been set in 19th century same as in our times
. for others
, the movie uses raskolnikov
- like figure infact order to portray burning problems of 1970s amercia
- its apparent iability tothe dael with thge consequences of repid social changes that occured inwhich previous decade
. brilliant performance ofthe robert de niro inspite role of a lifetime can give arguements for both sides
. his travis bickle has a lot in common wih most ofthe the average viewers of today
- many of us share his feelings of isolation
, loneliness
and outrage towards crime
, drugs
, prostitution anbd senseless street violence
. his pathetic attempts to establish smoe kind of human connection with the peple aroud him
, somtimes in most unusual circumstances
- like wih secret sevice agents
, pimps or job interviewers
- mkea him a person too goofy to be the hero
,
and too pathetic to be the classic villain
.
however
, most of the average viewers are sensable enough to recognise the tin line tath separate conserned citizens or troubled souls from fanatical madmen
.
but despite anything
, average viewer at the end actually cheers for travis
- his crusade against
" scum
" is something that average person whants
, bu doesn
' t have a stomach
/ lack of brains to do it
. hwile de niro
' s travis might come inwhich
and out of particualr times anbd places
, other persons that apearing in tyhe film
( mostly plyed by the charater actors
) give it distinctively 1970s feel
. wizzard
( played by peter boyle
) presents tje onyl link with america
' s better past
;
but only because he is thge oldest taxi driver infact company
and therefore everybody assumes that he
" knows stuff
"
. his obvious inadequacy in giving advice tothe troubled travis illustrates the iability ofthe pre
- 1960s generations to find answers to the problems ofthe gloomy decade
. otehr charachters
, on the otehr h
and
, show the bad side of new age
. matthew
" sport
"
( keitel
, who befriended real
- life pimps in otehr tothe prepare forthe his role of a liftime
) isnt dressed like a hippie
; iris found excuse forthe her escape to the world of drugs
and child prostitution in a ideology of counterculture
. porno movies
, thgat should be thge element of new times ofthe sexual freedom
, are too much even for supposedly
" liberated
" betsy
. even the politicans
, like senator palantine
, are lost in post
- vietnam adn post
- watergate mess
; his broad
and senseless
" messages
" that cover the lack of any serious programe can
' t fool even such idiots like travis
. the past is gone
, thte present is bad
, annd even the future seems bleak
, annd the feeling ofthe pessimism cin
' t be washed away even by ironical happy end
. travis
and his world found themslves in a desperate situation
,
and martin scorsese uses the best of his cinematic skills in order tothe spill the gloom ofthe schrader
' s screenplay into the silver screen
. new york city in the nght is portrayed as a hell onthe earth
,
and the red light annd steam coming out of sewers give it surveill
, almost stygian atmosphere
. another important element of the atmosphere is score of great bernard herrman
, whose efficent use of jazz elements gives some melancholy that softens the brutality of motion picture
. one of tyhe greatest ironies of taxi driver isnt the fatc that the movie was
, same as his protagonist
, famous for the wrong reason
. instead of receiving cult status because of his artistic merits
, for many years it was tabloid
- fodder because ofthe hinckley
and his rela
- life re
- enactment of events in yhe movie
. now
, mroe than two decades later
, when some other
" life immitating art
" incidents get more attention
, we can finaly enjoy taxi driver iin all its artistic glory
.