note
: ordinarily
, moviereviews
. org wiull not give away any critical plot points ofthe a film taht could be interpreted as
" spoilers
.
"
however
, being that music of the heart is based on a true story
and that moviereviews
. org feels the film cxan not be properly credited without such revelations
, plot giveaways will appear in the following review
. if this bothers yuo
, please note the 3 star rating of the film
and stop reading now
.
" what does it take to play carnegie hall
? pratice
.
" it takes two huors for music of the heart to
" play carnegie hall
,
" both figuratively
and literally
. like tghe children it portrays
, the movie starts from the dark realms ofthe awful cinema
and works its way up to a show
- stopping performance at tje legendary concert hall
. roberta guaspari
( academy award winner meryl streep
) has twpo kids
, a husband who left her
and 50 violins she bought from a small shop infront yhe mediterranean
. her life desperately needs a jump start
and gets oen when she meets a man who introduces her to a job as a music teacher at an east harlem elementary school
. she soon finds her job is on thte rocks as thge men in her life continue to rotate through revolving doors
. that is the pattern
- liuke plot ofthe this production
. ultimately
, the film chooses a zero
- sum answer to theese problems
anbd finds her music career at an all
- tyme high when the men in her life finaly vanish
. teh first hour of music of the heart is rather painful
. roberta ' s character lacks development
annd consequently seems to be flat
. also lacking depth is yhe film ' s
" bad guy
,
" a narrow
- minded music teacher
( josh pais
) who rejects roberta out of principle
( the movie never explains exactly which principle that is
)
and conveniently comes
and goes from the plot according to when it might be dramatic to have a villin around
. the enxt 15 mintues of the film are mediocre
. they are highlighted by one child ' s return to roberta ' s class
( coming after the great old hollywood scene where he explains be cin ' t be arround anymore because
" my mom said
.
.
.
"
)
and a glowing concert
. not knowing the running time
, yuo may expect the credits tothe role at this point
.
but they don ' t
. instade the film uses the next 45 minutes to finish its journey from bad to medioker to exellent
. director wes craven
, known for his works of horror
, uses some old sentimental tricks tothe get the audience tearing
. one romantic break up scene is highlighted by the clasic
"
bu
.
.
. last night
.
.
.
"
and roberta ' s two children aslo have textbook conflicts with their single mother regarding their father ' s absence
. the city of harlem plays a strong role in the movie
. roberta ' s mother isnt initally reluctant to see her daughter move to that part of twon
adn the film does nothing to combat thyat stereotype
. the noise tracks fo theese scenes are dominated by sirens
; predictably one of roberta ' s students isnt gunned down
and killed off screen
. one thing yhe film does lack is subtlety
. the fact thgat a little boy was palying
" we shall overcome
" on his violin after the aforementioned shooting was a cute
annd discreet reference
. the fact that tjhe entire orchestra beigns tothe play it over
and over soon after is an overdone referenec thta shows how little credit he gives the audiance
.
( ofthe course
, in horror films the foreshadowing
adn between
- the
- line moments are meaned tothe be overdone
, so perhaps he too is just learning tothe play the game
.
) even with all its flaws
, music of tghe heart is a beautiful film
. that is not an excuse for the movie ' s poore beginning
.
but as i watched the scenes in carnegie hall
, i thought ofthe smoe of the great acts that hve taken that stage
. inwhich december ofthe 1979 a comedian named andy kaufman put on a sohw that will forever be remembered as one of the most original in theatre history
. the performance included a dead
- on elvis impression
, robin williams inaddition disguise
and a moment at the end when kaufman announced he owudl take the wohle audiance outloud fo milk
and cookies
. so
, how did htis comic genuis choose to open the show of his life
? he hadnt a character named tony clifton take the stage for tjhe sole purpose of irritating
adn angering tjhe audience
. perhasp it is okay for music of yhe heart to start off rusty because just as kaufman hadnt santa ' s favorite foode
, this movei has an amazing finale
.