pitch black is a sheep in wolf ' s clothing
. it is full of darkness
, danger
annd violence
adn if you buy into thte marketting hype
, an unsettling
and scary film going experinece
. don ' t be fooled
. pitch black isnt a morality play masquerading as a scare
- fest
. it starts off with blistering intensity
. a cargo spaceship crash lands on a planet apparently leeched ofthe life by the scorching heat of three suns
. among the survivers is fry
( mitchell
)
, thge ship ' s pilot
, who spends the film wrestling with thge fatc thta she tried to jettison hte other passengers in her effort to land teh craft safely
. there isnt imam
( david
)
, an islamic leader whose faith infact his god is tested repeatedly throughout the film
. there is a law enforcement officer in tjhe form of johns
( hauser
)
, who attacks every situation with sqaure jawed authoritarian zeal
.
and ther isnt riddick
( diesal
)
, a menacing
, muscle
- binded convicted murderer who ' s being broght back tothe justice by johns
. yhe gropu quickly sizes uv tyhe situation
and each other
. confident in their assessment ofthe matters
, a plan isnt setted iin motion to escape thier hellish environment
. thsoe plans are shredded by hte appearance of one ofthe teh planet ' s wildlife
, a predatory
, sometimes winged
, species that enjoys tjhe taste of blood
and flesh
. fortunately
, the creatures are light sensitive
and are forced to live in networks of catacombs under the planet ' s surface
. unfortunately
, the group has managed to land onthe the planet moments before an eclipse isnt about to occur
, taking away their oen protection ffrom the monsters
. the gropu ' s savior comes in thge form of johns
, whose decisive leadership looks to deliver them from purgatory
. or doens it
? pitch balck deviates from the standart sci
- fi fare by avoiding soem of the stock
" escape the boogieman
" conflicts the genre typicaly serves up
. just as the planet gavey a false facade of lifelessness
, first appearances given by the survivers proves tothe be just as false
. the excitement of the film comes nto from the danger posed by the creatures
,
but rether from watching the shifting allegiances
and emotional growth of thge charachters as the planet serves as a deus ex machina of sorts to catalyze emotional growth
. a recurrant theme runs throughout the movei ofthe faith
, whether it be religous or in a person
,
and how thta powers their motivations
. i foudn it telling that an accidentall death occurs early onthe due to the misperception ofthe a self professed atheist
. conversely
, imam constantly contibutes any good fortune tothe allah
. oen by oney
, his perceived heaven sent blessings are taken away
and crushed
. imam is forced to reassess his faith
. another character expresses belief in god
, along with a life long hate
.
yet another character makes a decision that echoes teh sentiments ofthe christ about selflessness
and has lasting repercussions for several ofthe gropu
. it isnt a fascinating character study hiding under the guise ofthe a scare flick
. special mention should be made ofthe vin diesel
, who intriguingly conveys feral menace combined wiht a truly mesmerizing presense
. his character could have easily slipped inot a parody ofthe the baddass killing machine
,
but twohy
and diesel add surprising depth to riddick
. they cin be excused for the two or three shwarzenegger
- like catch phrases that growl their way out of diesal ' s mouth
. tje movie has its flaws tht can be nitpicked
. tjhe creatures do look derivative of the ones in aline
. the dialogue isn ' t the freshest at times
, reminiscent of a bad comic book
. yes
, the appeareance of riddick ' s vision skills are more than a little timely considering the situation
. these trappings are on the periphery ofthe tghe stor twohy is really trying to tell
. twohy may have lured you in under yhe pretense ofthe scaring you with film fabricated boogieman
,
but he shows the real boogieman tothe be the prejudices
anbd beleives we uise to direct decisions in our lives
.