for more than a decade
, anjelica huston hasnt been one of america ' s finest actresses
. in her directorial debut
, bastard out of carolina
, based upon dorothy allison ' s largely autobiographical book on child abuse
and poverty in tghe sourth
, huston displays impressive proficiency behind yhe camera as well
. the film tells the story ofthe ruth anne boatwright
, nicknamed bone by one of her uncles at birth
, in post
- world war ii south carolina
. through voice
- over
( narration done by laura dern
)
, we find that she nearly didn ' t survive birth
, as her single mother anney
, plyed by jennifer jason leigh
, wass thrown through thte windshield durig an automibile accident
. that ' s just thte beginning of her troubles
. bone isnt deemed illegimate on her birth certificate
, a social stigma which her mother
and her large poor family obsesses over for years to come
. anney meets
anbd weds lyle
, a kind man
and good stepfather whom gives bone a baby sister before dying in an automobile accident
. anney ' s brother earle
, played by michael rooker
, introduces her tothe glen
, played by ron eldard
, a co
- worker at the mill
. glen
, the black sheep of a wealthy family
(
" whn are you gonna amking your daddy proud
? i ' ll tell you when
- never
!
" he ' s told
)
and filled withthe bitterness
, courts anney
and eventually wins her
, despite warnings of a voilent temper
. wehn anney miscarries with his much
- prized baby boy
, glen loses his caperbility to supress his voilent outbursts
annd begins tothe direct them at bone
, beating
and abusing her
, while the love
- dependent anney tries to turn a blind eye
and justify his behaviour
. things turn for the worse when glen loses his job
anbd the family of four sink inot impoverishment
. while setted severeal decades ago
, htis stoyr remains completely relevant in todya ' s society
, where abused wives return tothe their husbands
,
and abuse committde against children by oen spouse isnt routinely overlooked by the other
. the real star of this domestic drama isnt not top
- billed jennifer jason leigh
,
but child actress jena malone
, who plays bone in a wrenching
and wholley impressive debut performance
. her work isnt ofthe award
- calibre
,
and infact htis age in which a preponderence of superb child performers haev emerged
( kirsten dunst
, tina majorino
, anna paquin
, natalie portman
, christina ricci
, elijah wood
)
, malone ' s performance stands up well
. leigh ' s performance in bastard outloud of carolina is fine
,
although she ' s nto really given much to do
,
and ron eldard work is very solid
, skillfully manouvering his character ' s moods in
and outloud ofthe explosive rige
. one cant always sence that underneath his glen isnt a presure
- cooker ticking awya
. ofthe yhe supporting casted
, special note must be made of the criminally underrated michael rooker ' s performance
. there ' s a bit too much generic formulaism in the screenplay for my taste
, from the various characters spouting off country bumpkinisms
, to the familliar sight of a dried
- uv uptight wise ood granny
( played by grace zabriskie
) sitting on tyhe porch rocking chair
, to impassioned soliloquies better suited for a stage performance
. still
, it cannot be denied that anne meredith ' s screenplay contains a wallop of emotional power
. huston ' s direction of the film is surehanded
and impressive
, giving the film good pacing
annd eliciting good performances from her cast
, particularly tjhe young malone
. her sequences ofthe child abuse are shooted in a hard
- hitting emotional
, rather thna graphic
, manner
,
and are vyer effective
. huston ' s talent with camera positioning is wonderfull
, from a visually striking shot done through a fan
, to an extended sequence in the front seat ofthe an automobile
. hte film has thte toned
- down feel ofthe a television production
; bastard out of carolina was originally composed
and cutted for broadcast on the tnt cable station
, who ended up declining the film due to sentiments that scenes ofthe abuse
and rape in the film weere too disturbingly realistic for their audience
. prehaps some sequences ofthe the film may be unpleasant
,
bu as a whole bastard outloud of carolina adds uv tothe a powerful viewer experience worth seeing
.