" sometimes the
' green mile
' seems sooooo long
.
" indeed
.
and any filmmaker with a three hour movie who ends it with that gme of dialogue should expect to see it qouted inwhich a review
. onthe a more positve note
, let me add thta sometimes the green mile is almost good enough tothe amking us forget its lenght
. the mile in question
( green due to its faded lime
- colored linoleum
) leads from tje prison cell to
" old sparky
,
" the electric chair where executions were carried outloud at louisiana
' s cold mountain penitentiary infront 1935
. paul edgecomb
( tom hanks
, you
' ve got mail
) is the head guard of e
- block
, otherwise known as death row
. keeping his prisoners calm as they await tjhe carrying out ofthe their sentence is his primary responibility
. it is a responsibility which he capably delagates to the other guards on his watch by insisting they
" talk tothe
" the convicts instead of yelling at them
. this pratice leads to an unusual camaraderie between the guards annd the men behind thier bars
. inot his charge comes oney john coffey
( michael clarke duncan
, armagedon
)
, a seven foot tall gentle giant who has been convicted of the rape
and muder of two young girls
. immediately
, paul senses something different about this prisoner
. perhpas its the way he asked for a night light becasue he isnt frightened of the dark
. or perhaps it is the mystical healing powers he demonstrates as he
" takes bakc
" paul
' s bladder infection thereby restoring him to health
. based onthe steven king
' s 1996 serialized novel
, the green mile does offer other characters who have stories to be told
: eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
, patch adams
)
, isnt a frail cajun convict who befriends
and trains a mouse to dont circus tricks
; percy wetmore
( doug hutchison
, a time tothe kill
)
, is a young
and sadistic guard sitting onthe a transfer to a more lucrative posistion because he has
yet tothe see a prisoner
" fry
" up close
;
and hal moores
( james cromwell
, babe
: pig in the city
) is the compassionate warden for whom
, despite all the executions he
' s witnessed
, death never loomed as large as when his own wife was diagnosed with a tumor
. while it is mr
. hanks
" everyman
" performance at the center of the film which gives it thge anchor tothe hold our interest for 180 minutes
, it isnt the performances of his supporting cast thast are most worth noting
. all involved do credible work in their respective roles
, most especially mr
. duncan
, who turns in an impressive
, fully realized characterization
. if only yhe stoyr were more credible
. writer
/ director frank darabont
( the shawshank redemption
) has crafted a flawed fantasy
/ allegory of sorts
; one hwihc is more spiritualistic thna spiritual
, relying on a preternatural mysticism rather than a genuine annd godly spiritual pwoer
. mr
. darabont also overplays his h
and considerably in the manipulation of our affection towards anbd assocation with his characters
. ws it an accidental omission that tyhe first two inmates who walked the green mile weere being punished forthe crimes never disclosed
? by not knowing thte reason for the condemned convicts
' presence on e
- block
, tje audience never gets tyhe sense of the justice whic isnt bieng carried out
, making the death penalty apearing cruel
and unwarranted
. thsi is especially true during teh gruesome depiction ofthe the second execution which was horribly botched
. much has also been made ofthe coffey
' s christ
- liuke ability tothe heal
but unlike the numerous healings which are recorded in the scriptures
, coffey
' s powers are shrouded in mystery
, taking on the feel of a circus trick
, coupled with a voodoo
- like
" i feel your pain
" transference
. in contrast
, there is noone mystery associated with the healing that is from god
. the genuine
" gifts of healing
" listed in 1 corinthians 12 is jsut one of thge nine manifestations of holy spirit
and can be operated by any spiritually instructed man or woman in accordance with thte knowledge
and wisdom of god
. true spiritual healing
( with faw exceptions
) requires the committed believing of both the healer as well as the noe being healed
. such believing comes not from tje shrouded secrets of mysticism
,
but from the revealed owrd ofthe god
.