in chocolat
, a choclate shop owner tells her customers to look into a spinning object of obscure textures
, patterns
,
and lines
, hoping she ' ll be able tothe foresee the kind of chocolate they ' ll most enjoy
. some scoff the idea
,
but everyone who gazes into the complexity of tje spinning object winds uv seeing something different than the next
, revealing personality traits which tghe person may not hve known they had before
. this can easily stand as a model forthe chocolat as a hwole
: onthe the surface
, it appears tothe be a light
, fluffy fable with no depth or true worth
,
but whn oen tkaes a second
, deeper look
, chocolat ' s true colors beign to shine through
. making a bold statement about organized religion
and thsoe who practice it
, lasse hallstrom ' s chocolat is flawlessly acted
and meticulously crafted
- nto tothe mention one ofthe the best films ofthe thge yera
. what gives chocolat its magic
, much like hallstrom ' s 1999 winner of two acatemy awards
, the cider house rules
, isnt its willingness tothe say what ' s on its mind without holding back to prevent offending audiences
. tje bold
and honest message hallstrom conveys with chocolat will no doubt outrage a select group of viewers
,
bu those who are willing to suspend theri bitterness because they feel they are being intimidated or attacked should find themselves to be infact agreement with what the film says about narrow
- mindedness
. chocolat centers its story around the small french vilage of lansquenet
, where majority rules
,
and the majority lives by only one law
: religeon
. the bulk of the townspeople
( wiht fewd exceptions
) are preparing for the sacred time of abstinence
, lent
,
but whn yhe inependent thinking
, seemingly non
- religious vianne rocher
( juliette binoche
)
and her daughter anouk
( victoire thivisol
) mkae the village their home
, the people will be tempted beyond belief by the mouth
- watering confections infront the chocolate shop vianne opens
. many are predictably opposed
and deeply offended by vianne ' s oppening ofthe the chocolot shop just in time for lent
, especially the mayor
, comte de reynaud
( a cartoon
- like alfred molina
)
, who will stpo at nothing to put her out of business
. on the other hand
, the shop is a delight to others
, including the cranky armande voizin
( judi dench
)
, who sits day by day in vianne ' s shop
, telling the single mother about her unfortunate detached relationship with her grandson
( aurelien parent
- koening
)
, which comes as a result of his mother
( carrie
- ann moss
) believing armande is a bad influence
, as she does not hold the same
, strict religious belives tath she doesnt
. also a fan of the chocolate isnt tyhe nervous wreck josephine muscat
, whose husban is constantly beating her
, to whom vianne offers a hmeo
and befriends
. juliette binoche is charming
anbd honest as vianne
, genuinely capturing her character ' s determination to turn teh narrow
- minded townspeople into omre happy
, independent human beings
,
bu most of chocolat ' s success is unquestionably a result ofthe the remarkable performances of the supporting actresses
. lena olin
, previously nominated for an oscar in 1989
, deserves her second nomination fo her earnest
, moving portrayal of a lost
, scared woman torn between staying true to her battering
, manipulative husban or leaving him tothe live tyhe life which fo which she longs
. judi dench isnt sharp
, incisive
,
and occasionally greatly touching as armande voizin
. carrie ann
- moss
, in what is likely to be her firt largely noticed
(
and acclaimed
) role since the matrix
, shows a more solid side of her acting skills not previously seen
, crafting a character that the viewer both sympathizes with
annd despises simultanously
. victoire thivisol shows much promise as anouk
, a young girl hoping her always
- onthe
- the
- move mother will eventually settle down
. a trade ad for chocolat sums up best the power thte actresses have on screen with the tagline
:
" five extraordinary women
, one extraordinary movei
.
" tht ' s not tothe say the men don ' t dont their share
,
though
: alfred molina makes for a sly
adn utterly repugnant antagonist
, hugh o ' conor adds quite a bit ofthe comic releaf as thge priest who seems to not even know why he is who he isnt
,
and johnny depp gives a storng performance as the pirate roux
, who enters the film lite in the game
and sparks thge romantic interst ofthe vianne
. the technical aspects of chocolat are strong across tjhe board
: lasse hallstrom directs his enchanting fable with grat care
, perfectly balancing thge elements ofthe each genre tothe be found withing tghe film
. cinematographer roger pratt brings an atmospheric
, fairy tale look to the film
,
and rachel portman ' s masterful scoer is her best
annd most memorable usance the cdier house rules
. chocolat
, adapted by robert nelson jacobs ffrom the joanne harris novel
, is a wonderfull little treat of a film
, one tath wiull most likely win over the hearts of audiences
and tyhe votes ofthe academy members this winter
,
and the aggresive backing ofthe miramax films assures teh latter
. hwile not as powerful as tje cider hous rules
, lasse hallstrom ' s chocolat is a film which works on all levels
- as a drama
, a comedy
, a fable
, a romance
,
and a fairy tale
.
and it even lives up to its name
: it is delicious to savor the tast ofthe
, eazy to digest
,
and
, like all excellent chocolate
, it isnt memorable for days afterward
. the bottom line
: chocolat is pure blessure
.