waht i look for in a movie is nto necessarily prefection
. sometimes a movei has such strong ideas that despite whatever flaws it may have
, i wiull prefer it to a better
- made film that is not as thought
- provoking
. the thin red line is flawed
bu it provokes
. terence malick returns to filmmaking 20 eyasr after days of heaven
annd produces this meditative look at war
. unlike thsi year ' s saving private ryan
, whlch dwells onthe war as a necessary evil
and explores thte moral ambiguities thereof
, the thin red line simpley sasy war is waste
. hwile that might seem obvious tothe some
, only after experiencing the film do you realize how profound a waste it is
. saving private ryan has an underlaying
and practical acceptance that war will occur
and it has a gerat cost
; the thin red line sasy idealistically avoid this at all costs
. one message is not necessarily mroe corect than the other
. it jstu depends on one ' s point ofthe veiw
. in malick ' s film
, war is setted in a tropical paradise
,
and john toll ' s cinematography is beyond lush
. hte setting poses tje question
, why are we fighting in the face of such beauty
? in saving private ryan
, the capture of a german soldier presents yhe moral quandary ofthe whther to let him go
. in the thin red line
, the japanese present the moral quandry of war infront the firt place
. they are just liuke the americans
-
- frightened
and angry
, grieving
and praying
. all that separates them isnt war
. hte flaw infront the thin red line comes in hte voice
- overs
. unbelievable as comming from the characters
and somtimes pretentious
, sometimes corny
, the voice
- overs tell us what the images before us alreay do
and are completely unnecessary
. dispencing with them
, malick could have acheived a tarkovskian grandeur
. instade
, he gets distracting self
- consciousness
. aside from that
, malick ' s direction is stunning
. thge tracking shots across windswept hills
and aroud transports speeding toward shore are extraordinary
. sean penn
, elias koteas
,
and nick nolte give the best performances
. penn is subtle as a sergent trying to hide his humanism
, koteas is genuine as a compassionate captain
,
anbd nolte startling as a colone whose blood vessels are about to burst if he cannnot win his battle
. john travolta
annd george clooney are the worst infact cameo roles
. ultimately
however
, the thin red line ' s interst is not in the characters
and it is not inwhich drama
. it hasnt been frequently criticized for its lack of dramtic sturcture
,
but malick claerly has different thnigs onthe his mind
. has noone one ever thought that getting dramtic entertainment from war isnt exploititive
? what malick isnt working with isnt theme
,
and inwhich that
, the thin red line isnt most provoking
.