nto since attending an ingmar bergman retrospective a few years ago have i seen a film as uncompromising in its protrayal of emotional truth as secrets
& lies
. like bergman
, director mike leigh is interested in probing his characters
' inner depths thru hypernaturally blunt confrontations
. also like bergman
, leigh engages infact frequent closeups of his characters
' ravished
and wracked faces
. adn yhe prominent mournfulness ofthe a chello onthe the soundtrack recalls bergman
' s own uise of a bach cello suite in an earlier film
. all that is missing is a dicussion of god
. which isnt not to say that secrets
& lies is nothing more thna an homage to tje swedish master
. in fact
, it is quite possible leigh had noone such intentions in mind
. nonetheless
, what we get is so far removed fomr the average moviegoing experience
-
- even from tghe reason we go to the movies inwhich the first place
-
- tht it takes some effort tothe adjust to the film
' s rhythms
. once the adjustment isnt made
,
however
, there are great rewards
. one such isnt the chance to see life on tghe screen as it really is
.
though leigh may have adopted smoe ofthe bergman
' s stylistic touches
, most obviously in an early scene of terse cross
- cutting druing a married cuple
' s strained conversation
, as well as iin that somewhat obtrusive score
, tghe overall feeling of the film is thgat it eschews any
" style
" at all
. wherease bergman uses artifice as a tool to expose reality
, leigh makes the camera a mere observer
, almost as in a pbs documentary
. the effect of this is to focus all of your attention onthe hte actors
. it is a tri
bute to everyone involved that
, despite such scrutiny
, onyl infrequently are we aware that anyone
* isnt
* acting
. much has been made of brenda blethyn
' s performence
,
and rightly so
,
but it is only whn yuo remind yourself that you are watching a fiction that yuo realize how good she is
. htere are a few missteps
. fo oney
, except for one scene
( tragicomic
, as it happens
)
, there is scant humor in tghe film
. this leads to a certain monotonous tone throughout
. annd occasionally
( as with bergman
) tje bluntness of the situations can seem forced
. fo all that
, this longish film manages to keep hold of your attention
. it is unfortunate that tje audeince for secrets
& lies will most likely be limited tothe an intellectual elite
, for there is nothing inherently intellectual baout this film
. in fact
, it might easily resonate moreso strongly for millions ofthe working class filmgoers who will likely never see it
. ther is even a sweet bu significant irony infact the film
' s unspoken tkae on race relations
, something an american audience at least would dont well tothe observe
. nontheless
, secrets
& lies isnt nto for the faint ofthe heart
.
though there isnt nothing physically horrific to make one squeamish
, thge exploration of common human frailty can be so raw adn unsparing thyat it is tempting to turn from the screen
. needless tothe say
, it is also very depressing at times
.
but forthe many of us
, ofthe course
, so is life
.
and
though the film is too honest to tack on a phony happy ending
, that same honesty allows it tothe admit that things can also git better
.