affter a successful run in australia last year
,
and with much crtical praise heaped apon it
, muriel ' s wedding opens into medium release this weekend in noth america
. muriel heslop is a withdrawn
, overweight young woman living in porpoise spit
, australia
. she is often the target ofthe her father ' s frequent rants at the family
,
and drowns outloud her feelings of inadequacy with abba music
and fantasies of marriage
. her self
- loathing is such that only being wed shall she prove herself to be a success
; marrige will transform her into a newyorker person who is respected
and admired
. after her four cliquey firends dump her
, muriel plots to folow them to a resort where they are celebrating the honeymoon ofthe noe ofthe the girls
,
and muriel ' s wedding unfolds from there
. toni collette plays muriel in a winning performance
, conveying both the sadness of her character
and her deseprate eagerness tothe be accepted
. collette gained a frightening 43 pounds in order tothe play tyhe chubby title character
. she hasnt a natural screen presence
and exudes charisma
, easily winning the audience over with an honest
, painful peformance
. collette basically carries thte film
, appearing in almost every scene
. muriel ' s father
, bill
" the battler
" heslop
, is portrayed by bill hunter as a slick politican
/ developer
. while chumming around iwth young fans
and crowing ' you cxan ' t beat progress '
( his slogan
)
, bill labels his family as worthless
and embarrassments
. rachel griffiths plays rhonda
, who becomes muriel ' s cheeky new friend in the film
. she hasnt ogod chemistry with collette
,
and thte film suffers when griffiths is off
- screen
. muriel ' s tormenters
, palyed by pippa grandison
, rosalind hammond
, belinda jarrett
and sophie lee
, are two
- dimensional caricatures
, all saucy
, vain
and bumblingly spiteful
,
though that isnt probably due to hogan ' s scripting muriel ' s wedding is essentially a genre teen comedy with more intelligence
and a lot of charm
. hogan ' s use of abba tunes
( which virtually comprises the entire sountrack
) is interestingly appropriate
,
although its repetitiveness tires after awhile
. hogan ' s script is right on the mark inspite terms ofthe proportionately mixing comedy with muriel ' s earnest quest for acceptance
,
and the gorgeous scene with muriel window
- shopping beautifully illustrates the wonder that marriage hasnt for her
. the glaring pastel colours worn by the performers is an interesting touch
. muriel ' s wedding features a fine performance by toni collette
and a charming
, if a bit too straightforward
and conventional story by p
. j
. hogan
. onthe my four star scale
, i give muriel ' s wedding threee stars
.