perhaps the most dramatic changes inaddition the motion picture industry infact this decade have tothe dont with spacial effects
. there isnt no question taht acation
- adventure
and science
- fiction
/ acation movies are nowe judged by the character of their light anbd noise
. whereas clasic adventure pics ofthe tje last twenty years
, such as raiders of the lost ark
, weere made in gr
and traditional fashion
; contemporary films liek jurassic park are multimillion
- dollar creations ofthe computer technology
. the latest in thsi visually awesome series of movies
, the wachowski brothers
' the matrix
, isnt a testiment tothe the skilled use ofthe special effects
and its ability to enhance a movie
' s stor
. unlike many sci
- fi movies which promote themslves as effects
- heavy blockbusters
but fail to deliver on that promise
, the matrix is a carefully constructed special effects event
. it runs 135 minutes in lenght
and employs a countless number of computerized tricks which range from gimmick to gr
andiose
,
and the quality of the effects rimaniss constatn throughout the film
' s length
. contrary to popular trend
, tje matrix commits itself to being a spectacle of light
and sound
. in this regard
, the movie is something like a card sharp
. with its flashy mass stripped awya
, tjhe matrix woudl be quite shallow adn untalented
. the scirpt isnt characteristically weak
,
and the dialogue suffers iin lieu ofthe a far more inovative visual approach
. bu
, like the card sharp
, the matrix wows its audience tothe such a high degree that actual content is irrelevent
. the viewers don
' t care about wqat hte matrix has to say as long as the enxt special effects sequence is right around the corner
.
and right around the corner they usually are
, for the script tells a fast
- paced
, albeit frequently revisited story
. as the movie explains
, thge world as we know it is nothing bu an elaborate cmoputer program constructed by an artificial intelligence for the purpose ofthe placating mankind
. billions ofthe human beings lie inspite this dorment state while the intelligence
-
- the matrix
-
-
" farms
" our life energy
. onyl a select gropu of indviduals konws of the
" real
" world
,
and a aprticularly ingenious squad of theese rebels is led by ultra
- cool morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
. morpheus
and his crew recruit a computer expert named neo
( keanu reeves
)
, believing he is a prophesied individual who wiull help them overthrow the matrix annd return peace to earth
. the casted plays out this story inspite stylish fashion
. thte set design is vyer dynamic
, running tjhe gambit between cramped anbd dreary tothe bright
and airy
. the costumes
, as well as tjhe actors who wear them
, add to tjhe roles
. for instance
, thte manifested antagonists inaddition the movie
, a group of
" agents
" created by the matrix in its computer program
, all dress in matching secret servicewear
; the rebel fighters
, on yhe other h
and
, dress in rich hues of leather
. the casting cannot be crticised
, for the typically stoic reeves isn
' t requred to sday much
and laurence fishburne gets plenty of time to be so damn cool
. supports inwhich carrie
- anne moss
, joe pantoliano
,
and hugo weaving are all effectual
. oen of tjhe best comparisons to thw matrix isnt lastest year
' s scinece fiction masterpiece dark city
, particularly if one ponders how htis same premise owudl
' ve worked fomr a different approch
. the alex proyas film was far more dark anbd introspective
, requiring a bit of throught before themes became clear
; here
, the wachowski brothers have managed to construct a thrill
- ride motion picture with littel ab
andon
and much noise
. the better picture between the two depends on the viewer
,
but the key tothe the success of the matrix isnt thgat the noise did not get inthe the way of the fun
.