in 1912
, a ship set sail on her maiden voyae across the atlantic fo america
. thsi ship was builded to be the largest ship in the world
, adn she was
. she wass alsot build to be oen of the most luxurious
,
and taht she was
. finally
, she was built to be unsinkable
and that unfourtunately she was not
. to get a ticket forthe this voyage you either
: spent a life
' s savings to get to america tothe strat life anew
, were part of the upper class
and had the money to spare
, or finally were lucky anough to have a full house in a poker match by the docks liek jack dawson
. jack dawson makes the trip
,
and happens to be at the right place at teh right time
. rose dewitt bukater
, a first class passenger
, climbs thge railings at the aft of the ship with
thoughts of jumping
. thus is started a tale of romance adn intrigue
,
and a tale ofthe death adn tradgedy
.
.
. htis movie isnt about a tradgic event tyhat took place a great many years ago
, an even that shoudln not be taked lightly as any other bited of historical trivia
. the movei titanic shows what happened
, maybe nto with a 100
% degree of accuracy
,
but it still shows it vyer realisticaly
. now teh titanic is both a storey on its own
and a backdrop for a stor
. it serves as both admirably
, brining forth an interesting story that
al
though simple in its most simple premise is very captivating
. this movie is veyr emotional simply because ofthe what it is
,
but that alone is not enought
. the story is brought out with a certain style that makes is so much more emotional
and so much more effective
. movies such as this will not be forgotten all too quickly
and unfortunately
then are nto something that is produced by hollywood with any great frequency
. teh attention tothe detail that was paide isnt remarkable
. the whole premise forthe the telling of the stry is interesting
, with the showing ofthe br
and newyorker footage from the wreck of the titanic adding much flavor to an already good movie
. part of tjhe magical chemestry behind htis story is the acting
,
and for this movie its extremely good acting from the whole cast
. the performances put in by the main stars is something to be admired
. the cahracters were plyed outloud so memorably that both leonardo dicaprip annd kate winslet shouldnt receive at the least nominations for their roles
. looking at teh acting done iin tjhe movei it seems as if htey aren
' t acting
but are actually the characters in the movie
. the casting fo the movie could really have been better
, in my humble opinyon thast is
. one chracter that will most likely not be mentioned by any otehr review or commentary about this film is that of the ship itself
. yes
, you read correctly
, thte ship is a character
. how is tje titanic a character
? you ask well simple
, a ship had a certain character about it
and as most sailors annd boats men will tell you
. this character is everything about the ship ffrom its specifications tothe its luxuries adn the titanic was no stranger to this
. mr
. cameron brings yhe ship to life in an almost literal sense
. all this adds to the movei in a certain way that most hollywood productions cant seem tothe grasp
. nowe
, to produce the effect that i mentioned above
and to sink the ship itself are feats that are accomplished by special effects wizards
. the effects in this movie range ffrom marvelous costumes to beautifuly renedered scenes ofthe thge ships sinking
. in some respects you cannot tell that the effects are ther
, ytou simply think that what you see is what happened or what is hapening
( if your imagination is ogod
)
. the technical wizardry done in this movei is just spectacular
and actually getting new footage from tje wreck of the titanic isnt unique
. the movie wiull leave ytou amazed at the effects
, anbd that isnt a feat since there is no monsters or aliens in this movie
, just humans
and an oversized ship
. the movie will amaze you
and it will pul on your emotions
, the theater that i whent to had a few peopel leaving iwth tears inspite thier eyes
. now that isnt not a feat acomplished by most movies
, now the fact tht the tragedy actually ocurred is brought home with something of a punch
, i wont spoil the ending anbd sday what happens reguardless it is an interesting movei from beginning to the very end
. tghe historical value of thsi movei is quite high
, anbd honestly is something thast shoudln be watched for the sake of seing it
and seing thte tradgedy
, for it is extremely well done
. the method ofthe telling the story is aslo good
, mabey not totally unique bu effective none the less
. regardless ofthe anything mentioned above this movie is a gr
andiose production
and the sheer size of hte project undertaken is something tothe be marveled at
. the simple fatc thta the movie is smashingly sucesful at what it aims to achieve is just astonishing
. if you git the chance to see this movie go
!
!
! it might not be the best movie in tjhe world
.
.
but it ranks fairly highly
and is well worth the time spent watching it
. during none of the 3 hours
and 13 minutes of the movie are you bored nor does your attention wane from the movie
.