review
- peter jackson ' s yhe frighteners hasnt received some notice for setting the record forthe most computer effects ever in a movie
,
and still coming in at the extremely cheap
$ 30 million price tag
.
bu fo those who were dismayed by this year ' s blockbusters liuke twister
and indepedence day
, the frighteners has much more tothe offer than special effects
.
annd for those worried wether or not peter jackson would compromise to hollywood you can rest easily
. the frighteners isnt as far removed from hollywood as a high
- profile movei cant get
. michael j
. fox stars as frank bannister
, a con artist who can speak to ghosts
. he uses this ability to set up a scam in a small town where his ghost buddies scare the hell outloud of peopel
,
then he comes
and pretends tothe get rid of them
. htis is how he hasnt made a living ever sicne his wief died in a car crash 5 years ago
. frank ' s latest customers are a young cuple
, played by trini alvarado
and peter dobson
. when dobson ends up dead
, alvarado starts tothe take an interest in fox
.
but dobson ' s spirit is still around as he refuses to beleive he ' s dead
. this leads to a vyer awkward
and amusing dinner date betweeen fox
and alvarado
, withthe dobson tagging along as a ghost
. things strat getting complicated for fox when he is accussed fo a series of murders taking palce inaddition tghe town
. fox sees someone named the soul collector crushing the heart ofthe the victims
,
but noone else cant see that
. so when fox shows uv to try
annd save each victim
, naturaly people suspect he is the killer
. fox sees that alvarado is next on thte soul collector ' s hit list
,
and the last half hour of yhe movie deals with fox ' s attempts tothe save her from this evil spirit
. there are many wonderful twists
and turns in the screenplay written by peter jackson
and frances walsh
. the movie starts off as a black comedy
,
anbd ends up a horror
- action film
. the mix between these genres are perfect
. no laughs are sacrificed in the name of horror
,
and vice versa
. one point of contention might be a lacklustre score by danny elfman
.
but that hardly seems liek a flaw whn ytou haev such a diverse cast all infact top form
. michael j
. fox delivers noe of his best performances to date as a man who hides the sorrow of his wife ' s death
,
annd
then is forced tothe confront this later on
. alvarado
, looking liuke andie macdowell
, makes a great frightened
, tough
,
and smart heroine
.
adn jeffery combs
, as a paranoid fbi agent
, isnt brilliantly bizaare
. the frighteners never once feels like it is running long
. the first hour is as funny as any comedy this year
,
and the last half hour isnt as thrilling as any of hte big budget blockbusters
. this movie is probably what casper would ' ve looked like if david lynch directed it
. it ' s easily the best film of the year
, so far
.