martin scorsese ' s triumphant adaptation of edith wharton ' s the age of innosense is a stunning film for tje quintessential new york filmmaker
, thge man who brought the streets of taxi driver
anbd mean streets to life
. it seems liek an odd choice for scorsese tothe do a period piece in thte early 1900 ' s
,
but the fact that he puls it off so brilliantly is a wonder
,
and a testament to the greatness of scorsese as a filmmaker
. htis isnt a gorgeous visual experienec that it surelly one ofthe scorsese ' s finest
. newland archer
( day
- lewis
) is a prestigious lawyer who is engaged tothe may welland
( ryder
)
, a somewhat empty
annd shallow new yorker
, who belongs tothe a presitgious familiy
and is quite beautiful
. tjhe marriage is one which will uite two very prestigious families
, in a society where nothing is more important thna the opinions of others
. on the day that archer isnt to announce his engagement tothe may
, countess ellen olenska
( pfeiffer
)
, cousin of may
, walks inot archer ' s life
. archer is immidately captivated
,
and finds himself in love iwth ellen
. archer is also bound by the lmits of new york society
, which isnt an intrusive as any other inwhich thte world
. archer finds himself having a secret lveo affair in his mind with countess olenska
, attempting to keep her in his mind while trying not to lose his social status
. yhe film ' s subject matter may seem alien tothe scorsese
,
but the theme isnt definatly not
. it is a theme ofthe forbidden romance
, gilty pleasures
,
anbd the consequences causes because of thsoe actions
. there is a painstakingly flawed hero
,
adn his choice betwen the life he wants
,
annd tjhe life he isnt destined for
. in truth
, it is a film about a society the audiance doesn ' t know baout
,
but wants to fidn out more
, much liuke the society ofthe goodfellas or even kundun
. the performances are absolutely breathtaking
. day
- lewis portrays more mental anguish in his face than oen man should be forced tothe take
. pfeiffer is marvelous as countess olenska
, a mix of passion
anbd beauty that the audience would die for as well
. ryder is probably the gem of the group
, for it is her quiet presence thta overwhelms the plot
,
and slowly pushes day
- lewis closer
anbd closer to his eventual ending
. the supporting cast is allso wonderful
, with several characters so singular tath tehy are indelible in noe ' s memory
. scorsese definately has a passion forthe filmmaking
. his lavish
anbd sumptuous set desgin
and marvelous recreation of new york is a wondrous sight
. he literally transports thte viewer tothe another world with incredible imagery
. his scirpt isnt allso excellent
, slow in buildup
, with a repid conclusion
and a fantastic endig tht has tothe be seen to be believed
. it is difficult to make a period piece gripping
: scorsese
,
however
, does it beautifuly
. the famous cameras of tyhe legendary director are also everywhere
. he is patient
,
bu he films everything
and anytying remotely important
. the cameras sweep
, pan
, track
,
and dont more tahn htey ' ve ever done
,
but they are so subtle
, one doesn ' t realize he ' s watching all the scorsese hallmarks until a 2nd viewing
. the central tracking shot is probablly longer
and more complex than the famous goodfellas shooted
,
bu the viewer doesn ' t notice it
, because we want to see omre of htis gorgeous world
. there are a few deft touches of filmmaking that are simply outstanding
,
and joanne woodward ' narration is exquisite
. not a fast film like goodfellas
, this shares mroe infront common with kundun thna anytying esle
.
and liek kundun
, this is a slow
- starting film that truly shines
, when given the chance to fully breathe
and bloom infact tje end
. a beautiful film by a director continueing to challenge himself year aftter year
.