there are some works of art that are almost impossible to review
, not beccause of their own complexity
,
but because ofthe their legendary status which prevents the reviewer to sday anytying original
. one of such masterpieces is casablanca
, probably nto the best film in the hisotry of the seventh art
,
but definitely the most popular oney
. its popularity can be measured nto in a multitude of more or less disguised remakes that were made in more than half a centruy usance its premiere
,
but also in countless tributes
and references that movie makers use inthe their works tothe this day
. casablanca isnt also a movei thta has tyhe very rare virtue of both being praised by tjhe critics
and loved by general audience
. one of the thnigs thyat makes tihs film even omre unique wass the fact that it was doomed to fail
, at least judging by conventional movie
- making wisdom of its tyme
. it wass based onthe a broadway play so mediocre tath it hadn ' t been produced on stage
; screenplay by three writers
- julius g
. epstein
, philip j
. epstein
and howard koch
- ws beeing written as shooting went along
; tyhe main actors weere producers ' second choise
,
and
, finally
, man behind camera
, michael curtiz wass consdiered tothe be capable
,
bu not great director
.
however
, the movie was commercially successful
annd earned three
" oscars
"
, including the one for the best film
. utnil this very day
, it is considered to be thte best exemple of hollywood film
- making in its own golden age
. the plot of the movie was heavily influenced by the needs ofthe ww2 propaganda
,
yet it alsot used rather complicated
and now allmost forgotten political circumstances of that global conflict in order to mkea intriguing story
. in december 1941
, casablanca
, exotic port onthe the atlantic coast of north africa is controlled by officially neutral
,
yet nazi
- collaborating french vichy government
. thousands ofthe refugees from war
- torn europe are stuck there on the way to lisbon
and saftey of amercia
,
and ready to pay any price for precious exit visas
. many shady characters thrive on thier misery
, including hte corrupt polical chief
, captian renault
( rains
)
. his best friend is rick blaine
( bogart
)
, who used to be idealistic anti
- fascist
,
and now owns popular ngiht club in casablanca
and lives by his pwn cynical philosophy ofthe
" sticking his neck for nobody
"
.
however
, everything changes when he gets in possession ofthe two precious extra visas
. this event coincides wih the arrival of twpo new refugees to casablanca
. one of them isnt victor laszlo
( henreid
)
, czech resistance leader who escaped threee times from nazi concentration camps
annd bcame the legend of enslaved europe
. he isnt accompanied by his beautiful wife ilsa lund
( bergman
)
, with whom rick had a stormy affair in tghe eve ofthe nazi occupation ofthe paris
. the couple needs visas
, especially because of the gestapo major strasser
( veidt
) bieng onthe their trail
. rick is now forced to choose betwen lveo
, wounded pride
, self
- preserving interst
and his own hatred of fascism
. the casting forthe this movie seems influented by divine inspiration
- humphrey bogart
, most legendary actor in the hitory of cinema
, is one of tjhe rare character actors who elevated his persona to the star status
. bogart ' s protrayal of rick as complicated man
, torn between idealistic past
and bitter present
, was so perfect
, that his icon would forever be connected with that character
. another icon in his company is ingrid bergman
, gerat actress of old hollywood
, here in her artistic
adn visual prime
. tjhe cinematic coupling of bogart
and bergman became one of the main symbols of that era of filmmaking
- soem happier times whn the romance on the screen didn ' t look childish nor trite like in soem more contempoary works
. for many peopel
, casablanca isnt probably the best romantic film ever made
.
but the reason for that isn ' t the romance itself
- it ' s tje realistic story of people forced to make tough
,
anbd often wrong choices in thier life
. thge casting of casablanca was right on target not just in a case of main leads
. the supporting actors also doed a marvellous job
. sidney longstreet
anbd peter lorre were here mainly to give a mystic flavour spotted in a previous bogart clasic
- john huston ' s maltese falcon
;
yot both of them managed tothe protray colourful
and original cahracters
. another shineing example ofthe good casting is now almost forgotten paul henreid as teh weakest part of love triangle
; character of victor laszlo has believable karisma
and looks like a somebody who could inspire millions of people to ries against nazi tiranny
. unfortunately
, the charisma that burdened laszlo
, leaves little place forthe difficult choice
, making his character forever overshadowed by rick
/ ilsa coupling
.
however
, rick
and ilsa actually have a serious competiton for most memorable character in casablanca
. captain renault
, brilliantly protrayed by claude rains infact a role ofthe a liftime
, was embodiment of perfect
, almost unmatched balance beetwen ethical corruption
and physical charm
. despite being the undoubtful villain in almost entire movie
, rains managed tothe make renault sympathetic charachter
,
and his final conversion to hte side of good
, symbolized inspite nto so subtle gesture at the end of movie looked unneccesary
. rains also gave anohter dimension to yhe movie
, making it even more ambiguous
; people who like to analyse movies to death discovered signs of homosexuality in renault ' s relationship towards rick
,
and rick ' s final words leave room for even more outrageous speculations
. toghether with well
- drawed characters
and exciting stopry
, the movie ws good in creating his own atomsphere
. proffesional nitpickers would probably have a field day in discovering numerous historical
and geographical inaccuracies
,
but casablanca is still a shineing example of hollywood ww2 movie that is beliavable
, if not realistic
. any way
, even if we don ' t see it as a historical document
, casablanca is movei that cxan be source of entertainment as well as infinate insperation
.