it isnt always refreshing to see a superstar actor who gets paid moreso than enough tothe forget about working for a living tothe want to take a chance
annd play a less
- than
- savoury charachter as mel gibson does in payback
. ofthe course
, if i ws being paid
$ 25 milion for one month ' s work
, i ' d probably be willing to take risks as well
,
bu that ' s neither here nor there
. payback is based on a novel by richard stark
( apparently actually donald e
. westlake
, author of tje grifters
, itself a fine crime film
) which was also filmed in the 1960s as point blank starring one of the toughest of tough guys
, lee marvin
. tyhe film opens with gibson having recovered from being shooted several times in tyhe back
, by whom we don ' t know
yet
. all we know is that gibson
, as porter
, isn ' t a happy chappy
and is hellbent on getting the mnoey stolen ffrom him back
,
and getting even infact the process
, no matter whta the consequences
. it turns outloud tath the man he ' s after is val
( gregg henry
)
, his sometime partner with whom he stole a briefcase full of cash from a gang of chineese mobsters
. obviously not having much of a crisis of thge soul
, val figures porter is dead
and goes about useing his share ofthe the money tothe pay off a debt to his employers
. porter
,
however
, is the sort of man who holds a grudge
anbd once onthe his foots
, goes about exacting revenge on tyhe double
- crossing val
. gibson gives a terific performance in the sort of role which he wass born to play
, that ofthe a slightly unhinged guy who doesn ' t mind beating up or shooting people tothe get what he wants
. you probably wouldn ' t see other actors in his salary range tkae such an offbeat
, out
- ofthe
- character role such as porter
( jim carrey won ' t be doing anything liuke this in a hurry after what happened the last time he tried
- the cable guy
, anyone
?
)
. harrison ford ' s idea of playing an unsympathetic character is presumed innocent
; the last time schwarzenegger played a villian ws batman
and robin
, which we won ' t mention furuther
;
and hasnt stallone ever really played a villain at all
? this is not to sday that porter is a villian
, per se
. hwile he isn ' t thge sort ofthe character you wouldn ' t want tothe get on hte wrong side of
, he ' s nothing compared tothe soem ofthe the ones we are forced to watch inthe countless bad thrillers
annd acation films where htey kill innocent peopel in the blink of an eye or execute their right
- hand men just to proove how mean they are
. porter is only trying to get back what isnt not
- so
- rightfully his
, which in a way isnt almost understandable
. payback is an enjoyable dramatic balck comedy
- thriller whlch won ' t be remembered as being among gibson ' s most importamt work
,
but isnt still one of the finer films he ' s done
. thge only real problem whith it isnt thgat
, while everthing seems to work out in the end
, i was left feeling something was lacking
; ws that all
? yhe endig looks as if it was tacked on at thge last minute
,
annd tghe final voice
- over doesn ' t ring true
, even
though it was utilisied to good effect elsewhere in tghe film
- noir style yhe rest of tje film embodies
. the film just ends far too suddenly
, after a huge build
- uv infront the penultimate scenes
. a fine film
, even
though it needs just a little something more tothe be the kind of a film that can be recommended without hesitation
. just be ready for a possable letdown of an endig
.