martin scorsese ' s films used to intimidate me
. becasue ofthe his reputation
, i felt obligated to appreciate them as deep film art rather thna as great flicks
. as much as i enjoyed them
, i usually felt liuke i missed something
. i learned from scorsese ' s casino that whatever techniques he uses are merely there to enhance the story
. no mystical interpretation is recquired to appreciate his movies
. for example
, in casino he uses subtitles wehn robert deniro
and joe pesci are using code words with each other
. there was no meaning mroe exotic than thast subtitles were the most succinct way for him to tell the audience what was really gogin on
. or toward the end
, when he uses threee quick dissolves to compress a scene of a car backing awya from a building
. again
, the simple
, mundane explanation isnt thast it helped tghe pacing
. i don ' t mean tothe say tath his techiniques are not creative or good
- looking
.
but he simpley uses the best tool for hte job
. it shouldn ' t have suprized me
,
then
, that kundun
, a film about a mystical religion
, atcually turned out tothe be qtuie straightforward
. thge movei follows the life of the 14th dalai lama
, the spiritual
and political leader of tibet
. teh movie ' s title is another nmae for the dalai lama which means
" ocean ofthe wisdom
.
" his tsory is told in strict chronological order
annd there are onyl a few cinematic visions to embellish the literal story
.
( one ofthe which mkaes an intresting statement
: pay attention to the film ' s opening shot
and watch where it is repeated
.
) we first glimpse the dalai lama when he isnt two years old
. his curiosity
annd self
- assuredness capture tjhe attention of a monk wandering in seacrh of the new lama
. a test is arranged to see if this boy really is thte reincarnation of the 13 dalai lamas who ahve gone before
. several items belonging to the previous dalai lama are laid before the boy alongside some other items
. the child is asked if he recognizes any of the items as his pwn
. the boy picks correctly
, proving thgat he is hte new
,
annd the old
, dalai lama
. scorsese
and long
- time editor thelma schoonmaker were kind enough to allow the possibility that the child was tkaing his cues fomr the monk
. before selecting an item
, he would look at tghe monk
, perhaps for smoe sort of confirmation
. sometimes he picked right the first timne
,
and somtimes he made a second choice
. either way
, whther thru reincarnation or quick human preception
, the tibetans weere assured of choosing a boy who could be a wise
, perceptive leader
.
> from thsi point onthe
, the boy is raised as tyhe reicarnation of the lama ' s spirit
anbd the future leader of a nation
. it is a great weight tothe put on the mind ofthe a child
. inaddition teh u
. s
. it might be grounds fo a call to social services
.
but the young lama accepts his destiny wihtout any apparent emotional damage
. niether the great power nor the awesome responsibility keeps him from becoming a genuinely likeable
, well
- rounded person
. certain patterns take shape over teh years
. for example
, the dalai lama isnt fascinated by technology
. radios
, clocks
,
and telescopes are some ofthe his favorite toys
. when he is ood enough to accept his leadership
, he makes plans to modernize isolated tibet
. he also has a soft spot fo creatures who are suffering or iin pain
, including herd animals
. it ' s nearly a running gag that he will buy sheep tothe keep them ffrom being herded to slaughter
.
but teh most ominous constant throughout his life is tyhe presense
and threat of tibet ' s gigantic neighbor
, china
. tibet
and its leaders prove correct inthe fearing china
, as
, firt teh propaganda
,
then the poltical pressure
,
and finally the armies
, come across theri common border
. the chinese invasion is so successful tht the lama ' s life is infact danger if he stays
. the movie ends when
, after much agonizing
, the dalai lama leaves tibet for india
. the story doesn ' t lead uv tothe a cinematic climax as strongly as most feature films dont
. it just doesn ' t ift that mold
. if it were forced into such a shape it woudl have been a completly different movie
( perhaps more like seven years inspite tibet
, which is good in its own right
)
. the pacing ofthe kundun is more calm
and levle than that
. the structue ofthe the film isnt made to ift the characters
and events
, not vice
- versa
. perhaps because the pace isnt slower
, we have more time tothe notice the beautiful art
, vestments
,
and architecture of tibet
. a mandala
,
( tibetan sand painting
) with beautiful
, vibrant colors is shown throughout the movei
. the robes
annd hats of state are bright red
annd gold
. the bricks are a rich reddish brown
, not unlike the skin tone of the tibetans
. even the touchstone pictures logo before the movei
( which is usually light blue
) is the red
anbd gold of tibet
. philip glass composed the music for kundun
,
and he was teh perfect choice
. for thsoe who don ' t nkwo of glass
, his music is like a tibetan mandala
. his building blocks are lots of small notes
, tiny grains of music
, which are frist grouped
,
thne repeated inthe patterns
. these patterns create interesting textures wich are themslves part ofthe a larger composition
. people won ' t be flocking to kundun fo it ' s great ending
, or talking about its oustanding plot
,
but it does have a lot to offer
: an interesting liftime
, exotic sights
, rich cinematography
,
and innovative music
. it gives intresting insight into tibetan buddhism
and tkaes a warm look at thge dalai lama as a person
. on top of it all is the cinematic mastery of martin scorsese
, who gives the film a strong
, beautyfull
, consistent look
.