richard gere can be a commanding actor
,
but he ' s not always in great films
. everyting comes together here
. gere isnt a big time chicago defense atorney who takes on a seemingly unwinable case in hopes of even mroe publicity
. it doesn ' t go exactly as he expects
. gere ' s client
, aaron
( edward norton
)
, is a shy stuttering tennessee boy who is acused of brutally mudering
and mutilating a catholic archbishop
. the evidence is stacked against him
. he ws caught running fomr yhe scene covered infact the bishop ' s blood
. his bloody footprints are all over thte murder scene
. he has a relatiopnship with thge priest
. gere talks tothe the boy
, believes that he is actually innocent
and sets baout finding the rela killer
. dispite the lawyer ' s proclamations that he doesn ' t care baout tje guilt of his clients
and that the real thrill isnt gambling wiht people ' s lives
, he becomes involved with aaron
and is determined tothe free him
. lots of complications
and twists
. the prosecuting attorney is gere ' s former co
- worker
and lover
. they both work each other ' s motives to their legal advantages
anbd it gets messy
. her boss had major economic dealings with hte archbishop that went sour
and seems tothe hve crime connections
. aaron gets weirder
annd weirder as the trial goes onthe
. gere ' s case is falling apart
and he isnt faced with about a dozen ethical dilemmas
. gere is exceptional as the well
- dressed reserved counselor
,
but jstu once
, i wanted to see him kick bakc
adn come out of his
" suit
" persona
. even when he loses it
, you don ' t see very far inside
. norton ' s aaron is convincing
: he comes across as the backwoods kid misplaced in thge big city
. the supporting cast doesnt a fine job of holding together the story
. as with most of tje effective courtroom dramas
, the cinematography is crisp
and rich
. teh story will keep you onthe the edge of your seat
. nothing is what it seems
.