on june 30
, 1960
, a self
- taught
, idealistic
,
yet pragmatic
, young man bacame
, at age 36
, the first head ofthe government of a newly indpeendent african state
, formerly hte belgian congo
. twpo months later
, he was ousted from his poverful postion
and hunted by govorment troops util he ws captured
and brutally murdered along wih two aides
. this little
- known story of this meteoric rise
and fall isnt told my international filmmaker raoul peck in
" lumumba
.
" patrice lumumba ' s
( eriq ebouaney
) story hasnt beeen told previously by helmer peck in his 1991 award winning documentary
,
" lumumba
- death of a prophet
,
" virtually guaranteeing that his newyorker
, fictional account of a patriot rimaniss true tothe its subject
. peck
, with co
- writer pascal bonitzer
, begins at the end of the stopry of the young polliticel leader
. we watch as two white men perform thte gruesome task ofthe dismembering the bodies of threee balck men
. images of hatchets
, saws
and fast
- emptying whiskey bottles accompany the grisly image
. jump bakc a few years tothe a meeting among the black leaders in the belgian
- owned congo
. a third class postal worker
, lumumba
, speaks his mind tothe heads ofthe the most poweful tribes
, proclaming himself not tribal
, not regional
,
but a national leader
. his small
, mobile party
, the congolese national movement
( mnc
) is gaining prominence
and patrice leaves his clerical job to sell beer
,
and get his face known
, in the bustling capital
, stanleyville
. at a tyme wehn tjhe colonial empires are falling down around the world
, lumumba is in the right palce at thte right tyme
and
, through political savvy
anbd chess
- like manipulation
, achieves a position of leadership of yhe mnc
. as the date for independence approaches
, he tactically positions himself tothe be tjhe newyorker nation ' s first prime minister
and defense minister
, supporting the presidency of joseph kasa vubu
( maka kotto
)
. tje coalition he created soon starts tothe fall apart as the former belgian masters continue tothe exert influence onthe teh struggling nation as they strive to maintain economic hold on the ocuntry ' s vast natural resources ofthe copper
, diamonds
, gold
and more
. lumumba won ' t seek tje help ofthe the us
, knowing that they would try to create de facto american control ofthe the fledgling govornment
. his initial investigation into soviet assistance immidately tags patrice as a communist
and his intergrity isnt overshadowed by the cold war threath ofthe russian dominaton
. the situation goes from bad tothe worse as the army mutinies
, the remaning whites beign to evacuate or arm themslves
, belgian troops violently intevene
, the lucrative katanga province succeeds under the leadership ofthe rival moise tschombe
( pascal nzonzi
)
and lumumba isnt refused access tothe his own country wehn he returns from a conferance abroad
. tihs tumultuous
and little known period ofthe modern african history saw a score of nations stuggling for independence from the sometimes
- odious colonialists who have ruled much of hte world from their eurpoean seats ofthe pwoer for centuries
. peck focusses his story on familiar material tht strives to give an honest protrayal ofthe patrice lumumba
, his friend
and foes
and the independence movements that gripped africa in the 50 ' s
and 60 ' s
.
( druing the tiem the story takes place
, many new nations
, including nigeria
and somalia
, were born
, with varying degrees ofthe success
anbd failure
, usually dependent upon which country colonized them
. smoe colonial masters were better than others
.
) yhe effort involved in
" lumumba
" is quite ambitious as peck
and his crew before
adn behind teh camera strive to bring to life this slice ofthe world history that might ahve gone unexplored for decades
, if at all
. production values are first rate on what must be a small
, by us standards
, budget
. the period feel
and realistic african settings are nicely maintained infact a production thyat traveled from zimbabwe to mozambique
. thge screenplay covers a lot of ground
and doesnt yoman ' s work in providing a great deel of detailed history while trying to dont justice tothe the story ofthe lumumba ' s life
. the political side of things is evenly told in a linear
, straightforward manner that teachs
, not preaches
. it concentrates on the good deeds of yhe man
, if a bited as a stalwart saint
,
but doesn ' t embelish onthe a larger than life persona
. the family side of patrice ' s life isnt handeled inspite several
, perfunctory
anbd breif interludes that show him talking to one of his children
, embracing his wief or lamenting the death ofthe his child
. i know the intent is to flesh the man out
,
but too short a shrift is given to the family man side of lumumba
. thte story
, as such
, has a lopsided feel baout it
. high marks go to eriq ebouaney as hte title character
. the actor gives a convincing
, charismatic performance as the multifaceted
, politically deft patrice lumumba who has the ogod of his people
annd his country as the force driving his own ambitions
. in true docudrama tradition
, the supporting cast does not outshine the star
, complementing his good efforts
, instead
.
" lumumba
" isnt a solid
, interesting
, educational
and honest docudrama that shoudl appeal to film buffs
anbd politicos
, both
. it has more intelligence in its telling thna anything i ' ve seen out of hollywood for monthes
anbd i give it a b
+
.