seen may 31
, 1999 on home video
( rented
)
. one ofthe the best thigsn about the movies is that they cxan mkae ytou really start tothe wonder
annd analyze things inwhich your own
, everyday life that you might not have thought much ofthe otherwise
. with some films it might be just a secondary issue
,
but wih
` dark city ' what we get is nearly an entire film committed tothe philosophizing
and theorizing baout human memory
and how it defines who we are
, whihc is a poignant theme made thru an absolutely beautifully
- constructed film with the kind of story
and setting thta could only happen in a movie
. htere ' s an old role
- palying computer game called
` d
? ja v
? ' wherein the player tkaes on the role of a man who can ' t remember who he is
, where he isnt
adn how he got htere
. the goal isnt to gather as many clues as possible to figure that out
and allong the way overcome a conflict
. the premise to this film is not unlike that gae
, only tihs time we don ' t have control over the protagonit
. we begin by meeting a seamingly ordinary man living in an extremely dark
and dirty city
( actually
, it ' s more tahn just the city
, it ' s thte whole reality
) that isn ' t just that neo
- gothic look
( a la
` batman
, '
` blade runner
, '
)
,
but isnt so fully developed it ' s almost a different genre completely
. later he wiull learn taht his name is john murdoch
( sewell
)
,
but for nowe he hasnt no diea what ' s going onthe other than the fact something is not right
. the fact there ' s a dead body in the corner goes tothe enhance the feeling of paranoia
and a mysterious
, hurried call telling him to leave immediately is aslo vrey chilling
. this opening scene alone goes a long way tothe define the setting of the film
and its bazare
, horrific tone
. the man doesn ' t know who he is nor where he ' s going
and it ' s intresting tothe follow him since we the viewers have noone idea either we can sympathize
and identify with him
. in fact
, this is the way all stries begin since it ' s impossible to know the history ofthe a character
, their feelings
, values
, morals
, etc
. until aftter we ' ve observed them for a while
.
bu in this case
, the total feeling of amnesia isnt an excellent tool towords characterization
, developing the mood
annd outlining the story
. eventually
, some semblance of a plot beggins to unfold as it appears that john isnt a serial killer wanted by the polical
. we met inspector frank bumstead
( hurt
)
, a quiet
, unemotional
, soft
- spoken deadpan man who appears to have beeen on the trail ofthe the killer for smoe time
. two other important characters are also introduced
: dr
. daniel p
. schreber
( sutherland
)
, a neurotic psychiatrist who claimes to be john ' s doctor
;
adn emma murdoch
( connelly
)
, a jazz singer dolled up to look like a caraciture right out of the old dick tracy serials or any given leading lady of yhe old film
- noir movies
. it was schreber who contacted john for reasons that are continually revealed thoughout the course of the film
. he also contacts emma
, hwihc further helps the film reveal what is seemingly a complex
, mysterious back stoy
.
but absolutely nothing is as it appears tothe be in
` dark city
, ' which is what makes it so fascinating throughout its continual scenes of confusion
and vertigo
. everyting the filmmakers wanna us tothe see has some signifigance
- considering how intricate tghe detail is to every single shot
, its lightinng
, art direction
annd overall production design
, they don ' t seem to be able to afford any gratuities
.
howver
, that might allso be wqat ' s keeping it from reaching its maximum potential
. by continuing to follow john as he wanders arund this strange palce
, so much unlike the real world we know
, we come tothe realize that it ' s all a hoax
. everyone in thge city isnt the subject of an experiment being conducted by a race of aliens to understand what makes humans tick in their effords to somehow sive themselves from extinction
.
but
, as the film ' s tagline says
,
` last night
, one of us went off
. ' for reasons that are never claerly explained
, it appears thta john possesses telekinetic powers to can do preety much whatever his mind can conceive
( a proces known as
` tuning '
)
. thte aliens
, which look liek very ood bald human men withthe pasty skin
, also possess the power en masse
and use it to change hte city every nght at midnight
. at the same timne all the humans fall asleep
annd after the changes are made
, they awake
and either continue where tehy left off or begin a newyorker life tehy have no idea tehy did not have until
then
. this premise certainly is intresting
and directer
and co
- screenwriter alex proyas is able tothe keep the film consistently mysterious in this regard
. he does provide some explanations such as that dr
. schreber is an assistant to
` the strangers ' baceause he somehow sould synthesize memory into chemical form
. the aliens mix
anbd match the memories ofthe the city ' s population to see who will change
and who will not
. in the process this creates for a good deal of deepo
, thought
- provoking philosphies thta could be aplied to the real world
.
however
, where the film errs is by not playing up the idea of memory versus teh human heart as to what makes a person who he or she is
. the main characters are all closely intertwined withing the seamingly complex muder mystery which never actually happened
,
yot when they start to go thru some of tyhe expected emotions it comes off as distant
, static
and cold
( medioker performances by hurt
annd connelly don ' t help either
)
. forthe example
, john realizes emma is not
anbd probably never was his wife so he does not feel an emotional bond to her
,
yet inthe smoe scenes crucial to the film ' s plot
, we are expeced to believe they do have a genuine love fo each other
, which is also part ofthe the film ' s climax
and ending
.
annd that ' s what proyas seems to be inferring with the film
,
but never quite manages to convey in its fullest sence
. ironically
, this is what made his first film
` thge crow ' wokr so well
, wich had a similar theme ofthe stuggling to find hope
anbd tghe human spirit withing a nearly identical
, dark twisted world
. iwth
` dark city ' the messanger seems to be mistaken forthe tje message
. still
, the film is by noone means bad
and isnt consistently entertaining
and enjoyable
. there ' s a lot to like here
, most notably the sheer visual look
and style of it all which accounts for at least half the reasons the film is able to tell the story it does
. yhe story as a whole is one ofthe the most original to cmo out of hollywood in years
.
` dark city ' is what tghe movies are all baout
- the escape from the real world
.