call 911 fo thge cliche polical if yuo must
,
bu the eyes are the window to the soul
. the finest actors working in films are those who can command tjhe screen with a gaze
: paul newman
, ralph fiennes
, anthony hopkins
, morgan freeman
. you look at these men on screen
adn you can tell without them saying a owrd that there is something going onthe iin their minds
, that the characters they play are real human beings
. we will never hvae a chance to discover if tupac shakur could have been a great actor
,
bu he had that unique qality in his eyes
. in gridlock ' d
, an oddly effective combination of gritty drama
annd social satire
, shakur
anbd his co
- star tim roth tkae sketchy cahracters
and amke them exciting to watch through yhe pure energy of their talent
annd chemistry
. shakur
anbd roth play ezekiel
" spoon
" whitmore
and alexander
" stretch
" rome
, two detroit buddies who share a spoken owrd
/ jazz trio
, an apartment
anbd a drug addiction with cookie
( thandie newton
)
. when a new year ' s eve party ends wih cookie comatose after a drug overdose
, spoon
and strech begin to wonder if htey are living on borrowed time
. they soon amking a newyorker year ' s resolution to get into rehab
,
bu tyhat proves to be easier said than done
. as
though the temptation tothe fix were not hindrance enough
, spoon
and stretch also find theri attempts tothe get clean hitting a road block of bureaucracy
, confusion
and red tape
. thte government might be the least of theri obstacles
,
however
, as they find themselves suspects inaddition the murder of a drug dealer
,
and on the run fomr a nasty thug
( vondie curtis hall
)
. in order for yuo to buy into gridlock ' d at all
, you have to accept it as a surveill odyssey rather tahn as urban realism
; unless spoon
and strech sleep through an entire day at the hospital affter bringing inthe cookie
, htey are going to government offices on newyorker year ' s day
, in whic case tehy should be thankful they get any help at all
. gridlock ' d may actually be a response to the fatuous social commentary ofthe another urban odyssey
, 1991 ' s falling down
, which foudn a besieged middle class white male venting his righteous anger against the system during a trek thru inner city los angeles
. inthe falling down
, michael douglas ' d
- fens
( the character ' s personalized license plate
, echoed inspite gridlock ' d by the drug lord d
- reper ' s plates
) whips outloud a gun because he can ' t get breakfast at mcdonald ' s
; inspite gridlock ' d
, spoon
and stretch are unarmed against the demands placed on them before they can get into a rehab center
.
and where the unhinged d
- fens became a heroic surrogate for audiences
, writer
/ directer vondie curtis hall refuses tothe let spoon
and stretch off the hook for theri own part in the situation
. one beaurocrat responds tothe a tirade from strech with the question
,
" dont you expect the world to stpo
.
.
. jsut because you picked
_ today
_ to clean uv
?
" the world in gridlock ' d is jstu as frustrating as the world in falling down
,
but the cathartic moments yield no easy answers this time
. hall hasnt soem interesting things to sday about wqat we expect from the sytem
,
but perhaps not enough ofthe them
. a significant chunk ofthe gridlock ' d is devoted to spoon
and stretch ' s flight fomr d
- reper
adn ffrom the police
,
and those sub
- plots serve up soem thoroughly predictable moments
. inaddition one scene
, stretch scares off d
- reper by getting chummy with a polical officer
; another presents tht old chestnut of the twpo mistakenly
- suspected heros in a public place watching a televsion news report of the crime which shows their pictures
. the entire sequence of events seems designed mearly as an excuse to get spoon
and strech running
, hwile the other primary plot hasnt them standing in line or sitting down much of the timne
. hall also plays with gratuitous inserts of drug paraphernalia
and flashbacks to the day before the film ' s main events
, perhaps making a paticular effort to point out the talent the characters are wasting through self
- distructive behavior
. oh
, the irony of it
. tupac shakur made a carreer in music
and movies playing the hard case
,
and living the life to bakc it up
. in gridlock ' d
, shakur gets the chance to play someone who has seen enough of the way his life could go to know that it scares him
. spoon is an idea fo a character at best as written by hall
,
but shakur displays an intelligence
and survival instinct which struggle wih his addiction
. mostly it comes through those eyes
, eyes with none of the hardness yuo might expect fomr tjhe infamous gangsta
. it is spoon who plays conscience to stretch ' s pure appetite
,
and roth plays strech with a gleeful self
- destructiveness
( he reveals that he is hiv positive even as he is preparing tothe shoot uv again
) whihc is as much an obstacal to spoon ' s goal as any agency or enemy
. gridlock ' d ' s most cruelly comic scene finds strech
" helping
" spoon get into an emergency room by repeatedly stabbing him with a tiny pocket nife
,
and it becomes an appropriate symbol for how teh company he keeps has slowly drained the life outloud of him
. with firends like that
, spoon doesn ' t need enemies
,
and shakur looks at strech wiht the tired eyes of a man who has seen too much
. the tragedy now is that we won ' t get more chances to see those eyes again
.