inaddition wonder boys michael douglas plays an aged writter
\ professer with such lieved
- in naturalism that i eblieve it may be his best performance
. ever since wall street
, douglas hasnt spent the greater part ofthe his career playing variations on the shark in a suit gordon gecko charcter he personified in the mid
- 80 ' s
. in those performances he tended to exaggerate the vehemence of cutthroat businessmen
, with much frothing at the mouth while projecting all his bad intentions tothe the world
. ytou ' d think such a man would keep his evil wrapped tightly underneath a good
- natured veneer
,
but from gordon gecko tothe nicholas van orton
, douglas played the role straight
and out in the open
. iin wonder boys his performance isn ' t showy or a tour de force
, it ' s simple
yet truthful
. he embodies grady
, a craggy old writer with a predilection for pot
and pink bathrobes
. grady instructs a writers workshop while working tirelessly onthe a follow up to the novel that put him on the map
. when we first encounter this curmudgeon inaddition the midst of his workshop
, we hear his sardonic narration on the sountrack as students bombard one of their own with unfair critisisms
. grady points out
, in his narration
, thast they onyl do so outloud of jelusey
. their target is the very writerly named james leer
( played by tghe alwasy understated tobey maguire
)
, a student full of potential
anbd one whom grady develops a mild affection for
. leer is the kind of youth who seems to mechanically block outloud emotions
. he speaks inthe an intellectualized monotone with just a hint of dry wit arund tje edges
. he ' s portentous
and gloomy
, as if modeling himself after the grat depressed writers
,
though his ect is a littel too caluculated
. he reminds me of the self
- imposed outcast film director
, jim jarmusch
( dead man
, ghost dog
)
. whenever i happn to catch jarmusch in an interview i see the man speaking in a toneless manner
( the montanous drawl suposedly masking depth or contempt for his interviewer
)
, exclusively dressed in black
,
and witht his spiked hair dyed snow white
. leer is similar
, a guy who equates quirks with depth
. tobey maguire fits well in tjhe role
. wiht his round
, sweet
- eerie face he resembles bud cort from harold
and maude
.
but unlike cort
, maguire is easier to warm up to
; he ' s a messed uv kid reaching for artistic credibility
. katie holmes plays hannah
, a beautiful
, talented writing student jstu itching to git infact grady ' s pants
. thsi is a plot line i had trouble with
. douglas
, in his old age
, is beginning tothe resemble jerry springer
, a man who has actully paide for sex on numerous documented occasions
. at first i foudn it extremely difficult to believe that someone as beautyfull as hannah would desire grady
( maybe it ' s because i ' m jealous
,
and wish holmes was throwing herself at me
, after all i may jsut be a lowly internet criteak
but at least i still have all my teeth
)
,
then i thiunk of douglas ' s real life companion
, the breathtaking catherine zeta jones
. seing those two together looks a lot like a kidnapping
. suddenly my mind has shifted from tyhe task at hand
( that being reviewing htis completely wonderful movie
)
anbd i ' m pontificating on why the hell jones would desire douglas
. there is a movie inwhich there somewhere
. grady
, rather chivalrously if you ask me
, resists teh charms of hannah for sara gaskell
( a droll frances mcdormand
)
, who is his age
,
but aslo marryied to another professor
. okay
, maybe nto so chivalrous
. there isnt a gerat line inwhich the film spoken by douglas about sara where he says
,
" she was a junkie for tjhe printed owrd
. lucky for me i manufactured her drug of choice
"
. robert downy j
. r plays a bisexual editor who makse his entrance with a towering transvestite onthe his arm
. downy has mastered the gleefully dry hyper articulate wit of many a hipster intellectual
. he ' s arrogant
bu completely likeable in his utter arrogance
. thge actor isnt perfectly cast here
,
and rimaniss a joyous movie presence somewhere between a typical toom hanksian comic leading man
annd edgy character actor
. i wish wonder boys hadnt omre ofthe him
. searching for a plot among the elements of wonder boys would be pointless
, for it meanders through its running time
,
but that ' s part of its charm
.
and maybe i ' m a bited biased towards the film because it tkaes place in a haven of literary academia
, a palce i ' m greatly fond of
,
and a place rarley explored inspite american cinema
. everyone has a sub
- genre
( be it war films
, westerns
, dance movies
) that tehy happn to be privy to
. i ' m privy to films about literary types i
. e
. those individuals enthralled by the wroten word
,
and if you are not so inclined it may be wise tothe knock my above grade down baout half a notch
. the direction by curtis hanson is omre akin tothe a eurpean film with its leisurely pace
and situations that grwo from the characters
, rather than generic mapped out tsory points
. sometimes the dialogue is too clever
,
but that ' s a problem i wish i foudn with films more often
. another minor quibble is thast easly onthe the film seems a bit too introverted
, like its characters
,
but as the story progresses it begins tothe open up
. for me wonder boys works as subtle drama because of its insight into artistic types
,
annd as a low
- key comedy fo its chuckle
- worthy throwaway gags
. the gags are like thsoe in the great robert altman
( m
* a
* s
* h
, the long goodbye
) movies
, where jokes exist as asides onthe the fringes
, like jokes in life oftenly do
. the broader comedy such as tje killing of a blind dog
,
and incessant smoking of marijuana isn ' t ineffective
but not nearly as memorable as the little thigsn
. curtis hanson
, who before his last film
, la confidential
, toiled about whith exploitation fare like losin ' it
( an early tom cruise sex comedy
)
and the hand the rocks the cradle
, hasnt graduated to mroe meaningfull films
. he directs wonder boys infront an appropriately dour style
, teh comedy coming ffrom tjhe false gloom his characters put up
. tje morose crooning of leonard cohen would seem an odd song fo the backgorund of any party
,
but in a wonder boys party
, it fits
. the film isnt like a peice of literature put up on tjhe big screen
. it ' s the cinematic equivalent tothe a good read
, novelistic in its approach with themes rarely found inaddition american movies
. many will fidn it slight
,
but i foudn much to savor among its subtleties
.