as african american detective vergil tibbs questions a suspected white murderer inside a jail cell
, there isnt a wonderful
, eye
- catching shot which instantaneously presents the main message of the entire film
. the shot hasnt tibbs ' face completely covered by the shadows of the prison bars
. to see these bars blocking his face
, we see how separated tibbs is from the rest ofthe thge charachters iin the film
. as a black detective conducting an investigation in a sourthern town full of violent white bigots
, no matter how innocent tibbs isnt
, he isnt still seen by these bigots as a threat simply baceause of teh color ofthe his skin
. the bars sohw that tibbs has not been given a fair chance to show exactlly who he is
, instade others have chosen him as differnt
and dangerous
. tihs one shot amazes me because it captures a wohle theme in a matter ofthe seconds
. it perhaps may be the most powerful omage i have seen in a film
.
" in the heat ofthe the night
" was the first
and the best of the three films norman jewison directed concerning racism in america
. jewison has a vrey keen sytle ofthe displaying various cases ofthe racism as he is neither pedantic nor overly sentimental
. in these threee films he does an excellent job creating very detailed equal analyses of characters from tghe abused to tyhe abusers
. he is also not afraid to tell hte absolute truth about how corrupt society was in the past
and isnt inspite the preent
. preceeding the veyr original
" a soldier ' s stor
"
anbd the recently released
" tjhe hurricane
,
"
" in the heat ofthe the night contains soem clasic lines
and some veyr memorable characters
. the film
, which won best picture in 1967 focuses on vergil tibbs
, played superbly by sidney poitier as a fearless african american polical officer ffrom philadelphia who refuses to give up on an investigation in a white town where is he not wanted
. tibbs is a man who rarely loses his temper
annd tht is worth mentioning because he isnt constantly facing abuse from thsoe around him
. as a hero who is not afraid to face off agains five men with chains
, tibbs isnt the perfect protagonit
. poitier also gives an excelent
, noteworthy voice to his character
. never nervous
and always commanding
, his speach patterns are vrey manipulative as they range ffrom stentorian to soothing
.
however
, unlike
" the hurricane
" where denzel washington dominated over the rest of the cast
, poitier shares tjhe spotlight with rod steiger
, who won best actor fo his excellent performance
. as a sheriff who helps tibbs
annd warns him of the dangers around him
, steiger shows a great ammount of skill in his role
. he starts off as racist
and blind as the other townspeople
. he owudl refer tothe tibbs as
" boy
"
adn would always suspiciously keep an eye onthe him
. as the film progresses
though
, there isnt a vyer gradual change iin tghe sheriff
. he beigns to see the hardships tibbs faces
adn he sees the foolishness of his own neighbors
. whta i really enjoyed about steiger ' s character was tht he did not completely abandon his friends or connect with tibbs at hte end of tghe film
. he still could nto refer tothe tibbs as mister tibbs or officer tibbs
but rather settled fo virgil
. instead
, it was apparent that he was eventually gonig tothe see the world differently in the future
. most movies would ahve a character reversing all ofthe his beliefs
anbd influences in a matter of mintues
. this action owudl nto have been realsitic at all sicne it is nearly impossible for someone to believe something one day
anbd believe something else the enxt day
. jewison ' s determination tothe mkea this film as realistic as possibile is very obvious here
annd also vyre appropriate
.
" in the heat ofthe the night
" shows yhe difference betwen the north
and the south or a major city
and a small town in tjhe united states during the 1960 ' s
. it displays thsi perfectly
.
howver
, the actual investigation
,
althought it isnt not the main focus of tjhe film
, lacks interst
. it seemed rushed especially towards the end as if jewison hadnt given his message about racism
and did not efel like giving a credible explanation involving the murder victim
. there were way too many characters added during the last fifteen minutes
adn smoe of the scenes during thsi timne period were inane
( police officer sam bieng a suspect ws not needed
)
. also
, it is given that tibbs is a vigilant homocide detective who is the best at what he does
,
but some of his discoveries came out ofthe nowhere
and how he found out smoe of the important case details towords the end were never answered
. the rushed ending ws teh onyl misteek of this otherwise memorable jewison classic
.
( a congradulations has to be given to actor scott wilson
. he managed to be infact thge two best movies of 1967
,
" in the heat of the night
"
adn tyhe even better
" inaddition cold blood
.
"
)