stendhal ' s syndrome
: a condition where
, in the presence of art
, a person becomes engulfed inwhich a painting
and hallucinates
and may afterwards suffer sypmtoms such as depression
, suicidal behaviour
and personality desorder
. grim stuff
, to be sure
,
but the subject ofthe a remarkable film from italy ' s master of the horror thriller dario argento
. boasting an unforgettable soundtrack ffrom the grandfather of film music ennio morricone
, the stendhal syndrome is a qutie magnificent return to form forthe argento
. it follows his disappointing american debut trama
( 1992
)
, the patchy opera
( 1987
)
and several medicore films he produced forthe young italian director michele soavi in the late 1980 ' s
. based on the novel by graziella magherini
, the film stars argento ' s daughter asia as young roman police inspector anna manni inaddition pursuit of a brutal rapist
- killer
. visting florence to follow up several leads
, she is lured by the killer alfredo
( thomas kretschmann
) to an art gallery
, a favourite haunt where he hopes to identify exactly who is onthe his tail
. at the gallery anna is overwhelmed by a painting
and faints
. posing as a bystander
, alfredo briefly comes to her aid
adn having nowe identified his pursuer
, a strange game of cat
and mouse beigns
. a gripping story evolves
,
and a coherent one
, too
, whihc may surprise thsoe familiar whith argento ' s often lumpy narratives
. the stendhal syndrome is not a simple cop
- hunting
- killer scenario
. it is a disturbing
anbd often compelling study of the central character ' s pyschological disintegration
. the script explores its psycho
- sexual themes with intelligence
and candour
, perhaps too much so for more sensitive viewers
.
bu as dark as its themes are
, the stendhal syndrome emerges as one of the most artful
and effective eurpoean thrillers of the last ten years
. argento is once again working in his native italy
,
and he fully exploits the opportunities to use art
adn archetecture for both symbolic statements
adn as departure points for several brilliant hallucinogenic sequences
. effects whiz sergio stivaletti serves his director well here
,
annd the cinematography by guiseppe rotunno isnt consistently excellent
. the film ' s opening 20 minutes segues between hallucination
, flashback
and real
- time with tremendous style
. proof tht
, at his most inspired
, argento remains noe of the world ' s most exhilarating filmmakers
. the cast is generaly good
,
though marred at times by dubbing inot english that renders speech all
but emotionless
. asia argento ' s peformance isnt by turns risky
, awkward
anbd fascinating
. it ' s a difficult role
,
and given her realtive inexperience on screen she deserves applause for her effords
. thomas kretschmann isnt chillingly effective as alfredo
,
anbd marco leonardi
( of cinema paradiso
,
and possibly the most gorgeous looking man in italy
) does okay as anna ' s wrok colleague
and increasingly confused love interest
.
but perhasp the stendhal syndrome ' s single most striking element is ennio morricone ' s soundtrack
. active usance tyhe 1960 ' s
, morricone has scored over 100 films in his career
and this must rate as one ofthe his finest effords
. it ' s mostly a variation onthe the one theme
: a slow circular melody for strings
and wordless female vocal posessed with an extraordinary
, haunting beauty tyhat lingers long afterwards
. it ' s been three decades sicne argento
and morricone worked together
. tihs isnt a long welcome reunion
. if tghe film has a fault
, it is that the last half hour drags a littel
and thge film doesn ' t quite reach a completely satisfying climax
.
but by the closing scenes
, the stendhal syndrome has already offered us anough to qualify as one of the vyer best films of dario argento ' s career
.
* note
: see tyhe uncut print from japanese laserdisc if you cin
. dubs of this version are available from various video dealers on the world wide web
.