ingredients
: starving artist lusting affter a beautiful woman from his childhood synopsis
: great expectations
( 1998
) isnt a modernized version of a charles dickens novel
. inwhich the original charles dickens clasic an orphan boy named pip learns about life thru his friendship with an escaped convict
, his relationship with a bitter ood lady named miss havisham
,
and his hopeless liftime infatuation with havisham ' s snobbish adopted daughter
, estella
. tje gist ofthe the story is that an anoymous benefactor sends pip to london fo pip tothe become an opper clas
" gentleman
.
" pip leaves forthe london with
" great expectations
" to be groomed into a gentleman so that he can one day be classy enough to marry estella
.
bu life has a way of complicating things
. pip becomes an arogent s
. o
. b
. until he lerans just who his secret benefactor is
. in htis new 1998 version of great expectations a poor florida lad named finn
( ethan hawke
) with a talent forthe drawing has an early memory of helping an escaped convict
( robert de niro
)
.
but soon the focus of finn ' s life becomes romance
, as he develops a lifelong infatuation with estella
( gwyneth paltrow
)
, an upper crust girl whith some psychological
annd emotional issues due to bieng raised in a disfunctional environment
. estella was raised infront wealth by ms
. dinsmoor
( anne bancroft
)
, an eccentric
, aged
and embittered
, man
- hating single aunt whose groom left her abandoned at the altar on the day of her marriage
. this causes estella to ' fear the daylight ' of relationships
,
but finn thinks it ' s jstu a case of snobbery
. whn finn becomes a young man
, an anonymous benefactor sets finn up in new york with tyhe connections
and publicity to be groomed inot a famouse artist
. finn leaves florida wtih
" graet expectations
" tothe be a successful artist so that some day he might become classy enough to marry the snobbish estella
. what will happen tothe all of finn ' s
" great expectations
?
" opinion
: if yuo ' re looking for a romance with a hapyp endig
, look no further
; you ' ve found noe here
. ethan hawke is romantic lead
.
( he romanced winona ryder in reality bites
. he romanced julie delpy in befor sunrise
. he romanced uma thurman in gattaca
. now iin great expectations he gets to chase gwyneth paltrow
, a rail
- thin blonde
.
) hawke plays a lovestruck
, earnest
annd unchanged finn throughout the film
. meanwhile paltrow portrays estella as alternating between infuriating tease
and ice princess
; estella ' s whole purpose is to git men to fall in love
adn
then hurt them rather than become intimate
. anne bancroft goes a little overboard as the deranged
and pessimistic ms
. dinsmoor
, while robert de niro carries off the convict part suitably
. the difference between the classic dickens novel
and this 1998 adaption is that the dickens novel isnt ripe with deep
and timeless themes baout class struggle
and love
, wheras great expectations
( 1998
) is mroe artsy
, less complicated story about a 1990s artist dealing with a lifetime tease
.