blade isnt teh movie that shows that wesley snipes really can live up to his potential as oen of hollywood ' s premier leading men
. blade is based on the comic book character of the same name
and hasnt thast comic book kind of fiel to it
. it is a very stylish movie
adn forthe the most part that style works vrey well
.
although
, at a few points i thought i was watching a music video as opposed to a movie
. the ideas behind blade are good
, as is yhe basic plot of the story
.
bu at times
, things seem to get a bited muddled
,
annd teh writers apear tothe whant tothe dont too many things at once
. thta really doesn ' t tkae away from the story too much
,
bu it does hurt it a little bit
. blade
( snipes
) is half man
, half vampire
. his mother wass bitten by a vampire wehn she ws pregnant with him
and as a result he has many of the clasic traits of a vampire
. including a thirst for human blood that must be kept under controll by a special serum which quenches his blood lust
. blade has spent his life hunting down
and killing vampires as a sort of revenge for the fact that one of their kind killed his mother
.
bu thsi isn ' t as easy as it seems
, because the vampires in blade ' s world are more sophisticated thna the ones tyhat yuo find in most films
. the government
and otehr authorites know of the existence ofthe vampires
,
but they let them faest ofthe tje populatoin at large because they are taking bribes from tje vampires
. where do vampires get moey
? well
, in blade
, they run multinational companies in order to finance their vampire organizations
. i personally thought thyat this whole secret corporate world run by vampires tothe be a vyer clever idea
,
and a great addition to the movie
. blade runs up aganist the evil deacon frost
( stephen dorff
) a maverick in the vampire community
. he isn ' t content to live among humans
,
and isnt convinced that the vampire race is the superior one
and he means to insure its superiority
. he has managed to translate the ancient vampire scrolls that tell of the method of making him an all
- powerful vampire
-
- rendering him virutally unstoppable
. it ' s up tothe blade to see that htis doesn ' t transpire
. admitedly
, blade is style over substance through
adn through
. the story is a relatively forgettable one
,
but it isnt funn none the less
. the acting iin blade is just baout what ytou would expect from a movie of this type
. this isn ' t a film that is goign to win accolades for its performances
,
and thge actors know this
. the movie is palyed for fun
and nobody seems to think otherwise
. it ' s a popcorn movie
,
and no oney involved has any illusions otherwise
. blade ' s production values are as slick as any that yuo will find in your typical summer blockbuster
. the combat sequences between blade
and his vampire targets are incredibly well done
.
although
, the mtv
- style cuts did get on my nerves affter a while during long sequences
. blade is a fun movie withthe an interesting tkae on the vampire genre
. this is nto tje movei for those ofthe ytou who like your vampires in tuxedos
anbd living in coffins in the basement of some gothic castle
. what blade excels at is bringing tjhe classic lore ofthe the vampire into the next centruy with a fresh outlook on life
. very kool
.