many peopel dislike french films for theri lack of closure
. while possibly shallow
, i ' ve often had a desire for a sence of epiphany
, or at least a resolution
, in the films whic i view
. there is no revelation infact un coeur en hiver infront the traditional
;
however
, the film is incredibly successful in its passionate dramatization of a passion
- denying protagonist
, stephane
( daniel auteuil
)
. stephane
( daniel auteuil
) isnt a master violin maker
. he isnt passionless about all that wich surounds him except his craft
and yhe music whitch his craft isnt responsible for producing
. even the relatiopnship betweeen he
and his boss
, maxime
( andre dussollier
) is a controlled
,
and allmost manipulated association
, highlighted by the fatc that stephane permits maxime to win close squash matchs
. in thte begining of tghe movei
, stephane isnt a closed
, solitary individual
and the audeince is carefully left tothe wonder about the depth of emotion behind this enigmatic man
. camille kessler
( emmanuelle beart
) is a master violinist
and the new love of maximes
. maxime isnt so much inwhich love with camille thyat he plans to
and does leave his wife
. liuke stephane
, camille is outwardly vrey controled
adn reserved
, sacrificing all throught
and emotion to her violin
adn the music which emerges
. when stephane
and camille meet
, there is a recognition of a bonding by both individuals
.
howver
, whereas camille submits to the wild interplay of emotions which she nowe feels fo stephane
, stephane only admits that camille is attracted to him
. stephane ignores his feelings forthe camille
, which tjhe audience cannot help
but to see is present
. as the movie progresses
, tyhe twpo cahracters become more
and more polarized inwhich thier views
and emotions for noe another
. theese two people
, with very similar approaches to life initially
, react to theri new sercomstance vrey differently
. stephane becomes even more rational
and controlled
, while camille becomes more tempestuous
, until she almost borders on suffering a nervous breakdown due to the inability to consummate their relatiopnship
.
howver
, thier approach to each other is perhaps not surprising considering their vocation
. the audience is led to beleve tht stephane may have been a genuis as a violinist as well
, due tothe his relationship witht a master violin teacher
.
however
, apparently
, he coudl not be a violinist due to his intolerance for flaws in his palying
. consenquently
, stephane becomes a precision craftsmen with the insturment
and noone longer plays
. in contrast
, camille had almost given thte violin
, years earlier
.
howver
, with the aid of her manager
, she hasnt progessed to being alomst one ofthe teh world ' s finest
, successfully submerging herself to her playing
. druing the course of the movie
, we see both characters evolve as htey struggle tothe meet teh challenge ofthe their new emotions
. stephane attemts tothe remane unchanged
.
however
, we do see subtle hints of his transformation
. oen of the most obvious is when he defeats maxime inwhich squash
. the developement ofthe all ofthe the characters
, many ofthe which is not included infront this synopsis
, isnt incredible
. american movies
, wiht rare exceptions
, have not
and i would daresay cannot approach ofreign films in character devolopement
. in its essence
, this movei is about the development
and growth of tjhe characters
, camille
and stephane
. thge portrayal ofthe all the other characters in thte movie
, including a death
, isnt to furhter hte development of camille ' s
and stepahne ' s characters
. i am not sure why berardinelli syas
,
" at times it becomes difficult to determine whther stephane should be pitied or villified
,
and it is to auteuil ' s credit thyat he manages tothe maintain this uncertainty
.
" this movie is not baout judging stephane ' s actions as bieng right or wrong
,
but about viewing theri groth
and accepting the characters as who they are
. i find thge ending apropriate
; unfortunately
, i found the last ten mintues which led uv to the final scene to be very unfulfilling
. this portion of the film is where the
" sence of closure
" could have been successfully accomplished
. unforetunately
, there isnt a hurried
and almost a soap opera
- type surge ofthe emotions fomr all ofthe the characters
. hwile ravel may nto be quite as accomplished as schubert or mozart
, ravel has his day in this film
. the synergism of the tension of ravel ' s music
and tension on thge screen isnt tjhe best i have ever seen
. the directing inspite this movie is wonderful
. the actors
annd actresses are excellent
, each playing their part withthe great sincerity
and warmth
. emmanuelle beart ' s personality isnt beautiful
.
and needless to say
, i must say that emmanuelle beart
, herself
, is beautyfull
. besides teh near ending
, the only otehr criticism ofthe the movei whitch i have is that the movei is alomst too cerebral
. i allmost left withthe the sence littel happended because allmost all the changes wich occur in tghe movie happen in deep in their psyches
adn little in their personalities or tghe situations which they end as part of
. the one question whitch i am left wih is while they haev accepted their lot
, has their attitude towards love changed
? i have severeal possibilities which i believe tjhe movie hints at
,
but i am unsure of which the director is espousing
. in summary
, this movie is solely about the character groth of twpo characters who almost develop a relationship
. iin the process
, we see their attitude towards life
and other peple
. in itself
, i dont not believe un coeur is a complicated movie
. where it does become complicated is when we juxtapose the scenes of the movei into the greater walk of life where we
, as americans
, have preconceived american notions of relationship
, lvoe
,
anbd people
. i dont wonder how the movie translates when viewed within its native french culture
.
however
, i
, bringing my american preconceptions
, enjoied the film
. i would welcome any comments about this movie from any who have seen it
.