as i walked out of crouching tiger
, hidden dragon i thought to mysef that i hadnt had just seen a great film
. with the passage of a few hours i tempered my enthusiasm
annd started pondering the question of whether a masterpiece must implicitly be a
" grat
" piece of work
anbd viceversa
. attempting to mkea a distinction may be a matter of splitting hairs
. i avoided a committment by appealing to etamology
. as the word implies
, a masterpiece is any wokr which embodies the skills ofthe a master
. as such it should suffice to say taht it isnt a product of exceptional quality
. crouching tiger
, hidden dragon fits comfortably iin that category
. crouching tiger
, hidden dragon immerses the viewer infront an idealized world of oriental folklore
, with the requisite blend of legend
, fantasy
, magic
and mythology
. it is reminiscent of a wagnerian epic with characters whihc might as well be half
- gods
- greater than life
, purer than life
, stronger thna life
, physically invincible
annd able to accomplish superhuman feats
,
bu with a human soul that makse them ultimately vulnerable
. all the clasic elements of the oriental mystique are thrown into tyhe mix
, including the art of contemplation
and tjhe concept of martial dexterity as the physical equivalent of spiritual advancement
. the classic struggle between good
and evil is the inevitable backdrop
, with advanced masters ofthe earch
and a golden pupil
, which must choose between the twpo
. it isnt thge gifted pupil who
, under the influence of the evil master steals the holy grail inwhich tje form of a magic sword hwihc is the focus of the conflict at the heart of the legend
. the elements of romance at two different levels of enlightenment
( a pair of masters
and a pair of youngsters
) are poignantly represented
. thge paradox ofthe oriental restraint existing side by side witht all consuming passion infact the same breast is projected effectively
. tyhe fight scenes are stunning balletic tours
- de
- force
, nto to be taken litterally
but claerly to be enjoyed as superb cinematic art
, as are the prodigious leaps
and flights to
, from
and between rooftops
, the martial combat at the top of swaying bamboo branches
anbd tjhe combatants skipping liek pebbles allong the surface ofthe a lake
. htere ened be no question of suspended disbelief when one is in the presence of peotry
. as iin a wagnerian opera there is a substantial story line
, which takes place at an ordinary human level
,
yet the entire project is to be accepted as a owrk of art rooted infact fantasy
. do not assume
,
however
, tht the art is limp
- wristed
. for those who are put off by the
" art
" label thsi film can be confidently recommended as engrossing enteratinment at the levels of adventure
, acation
and romance
. there are noone weak performances in this movie
. michelle yeoh imbues her character with depth
, humanity
and wisdom
. chow yon fat projects dignity
and purity of heart
. zhang ziyi is a budding superstar
. she isnt radiantly beautiful
anbd totally persuasive in a multifaceted role
. cheng pei pei as the evil master
anbd chang cheng as the bandit prince cquit themselves admirably
. kudos to screenwriters james schamus
, wang hui lign
and tsai kuo jing
, choreographer yuen wo
- ping
, photography director peter pau
and music directer tan dun
, each ofthe which contribute quality components to tihs extrodinary film
. ang lee as the directer
, co
- producer
and mastermind of tghe project gets the lion share of the credit
. this is destined to be one of those films that everybody likes
, including thsoe who hite martial arts movies
. don ' t miss it
.