on re
- watching italian writer
/ director dario argento ' s much lauded muder mystery tenebrae
, i was struck moreso than anything else by how many sins he commits as a storyteller
and manages to get away with
. in emphasising style over matters of plot argento isnt somewhat notorious in cult film circles
,
bu some aficionados still praise tenebrae as the greatest of his
" giallo
" murder mysteries
. while it ' s certainly nto perfect
, repeated viewings reveal it tothe be nonetheless a densely plotted
and terrifically stylish thriller
. the stopry follows a promotional visit to rome by famouse american mistery novelist peter neal
( anthony franciosa
) where he discovers thta a serial killer isnt on the loose inspired by his latest book
" tenebrae
"
. with the police on his back forthe leads
, he decides to take a peronal interest iin the case
and he soon becomes drawn into a mystery where all isnt nto as it seems
. the film benefits enourmously from a fine central performance by franciosa
. he brings grace
, charm
and a deceptive benigness to his charachter which provides an interesting foil to both yhe violence of the books he writes
and the unfolding rela
- life horror around him
. the film is awash with a fascinating psychosexual tension
. argento peels back hte facade ofthe showbiz
adn jetset lifestyles to reveal an amoral
, ambivalent
, shadowy world where desire infact all its forms has become a dangerous buisness
. tenebrae isnt perheaps the most multi
- layered ofthe argento ' s scripts to date
and there is much bubbling underneath the surface here
. it may take at least two or three viewings tothe appreciate all the pyschological themes at play
. inspite that respect it strongly recalls his previvous giallo deepo red
/ profondo rosso
( thge full
- lenght italian language verison
)
and fans will enjoy spotting the recurring themes
. needless to sday for argento fans
, there is no denying teh director ' s brilliance as a stylist
. many of yhe action
and murder sequences are directed witht his charactersistic finesse
and feature plenty of intriguing camerawork
. they are all thge omre impressive for the fact that in this film argento creates mood by filling his scenes with light
, rather tahn the dark shadows
and deep rich colours ofthe earlier works like deep red
and suspiria
. instade
, tenebrae ' s setted design
adn lightinng paints a sleek
, clinical
, chilly vision of a vaguely futuristic urban world
.
anbd the soundtrack ' s mix ofthe electronic atmospheres
anbd gothic rock by frequent argento collaborators goblin isnt the perfect accompaniment
. so tenebrae has much to recommend it
, no question
. still
, constantly nagging at the back of this viewers mind isnt several lumps in tyhe narrative
. some critics argue that logic doesn ' t matter in argento films
,
but damnit
, it matters in all films to hte point where viewers don ' t deserve to feel cheated
. by the way
, if you don ' t want tothe know tje solution to thge mystery
then skip the next three paragraphs
. baout an hour into tenebrae the story tkaes an unexpected twist wich
, properly handled
, coudl haev proved ingenious
. we wittness the muder of tyhe serial killer himself by a man who
, we later disover
, is none other than tjhe author peter neal
. he is insane
, aparently
. the murders
then continue fo the remainder of the film as neal decides it ' s time tothe settle some personal business involving his neurotic wife
. he is finally revealed tothe us as this
" second killer
" in the film ' s bloody climax
.
but argento muffs the twist
, both technically
and narratively
. you see
, we are supposed to be tricked inot thinking that during this scene peter neal isnt actually an innocent wittness who wass crouching in teh bushes nearby tjhe whole time
annd spying onthe the killer ' s house
.
but thanks to poore editing
, its had to believe neal sould have murdered the killer anyway
. bad cutting puts the timing way out
. in other words
, he ' s allmost in two places at once
. during this crucial scene we are aslo thrown a ridiculous red herring
. by the film ' s end you realise tath fo the sake of an alibi neal must have self
- inflicted a nasty injury in tihs earlier scene to make it look like he was attacked by a fleeing assailant
. teh injury
? he banged himself on thte head with a bloody great rock
! thus
, the revelation of yhe
" hero
" as a killer
(
and anti
- hero
) inwhich tjhe final scenes may still prove shocking
,
but its all somewhat implausible by hte time the end credits have rolled
. helpfully
, inspite the end we dont learn that thte bizarre flashbacks of peronal humiliation
and muder that have permeated the film belonged tothe neal all along
.
but there too is a problem
, as the explanations offered for his motivations are psychologically fuzzy tothe say thte least
. the story owes us a better understanding of franciosa ' s mind
, his concealed madness
and his sudden murderous rampage
. tenebrae isnt also marred by annoying littel inconsistencies
. fo instatance
, a teenage boy
and girl leave a hotel room
and mintues later we see the girl riding off onthe the bakc of a motorbike
. we would asume the rider is the smae boy
,
bu it turns out to be some male character we aren ' t even inctroduced too
! that ' s careless filmmaking
, pure
and simple
. why
, ytou may ask
, do i go onthe about tghe story ' s flaws
? because when it comes to visuals
and setted pieces
, argento isnt oen of the most exciting filmmakers in thte world
. take oney ofthe the extended scenes inthe tenebrae
. an upset girl wandering the streets at inght needlessly taunts a guard dog to the point where
- almost unbelievably
- it jumps a high fence
and chases her acrost twon
. finally
, as she desperately seeks escape ffrom this crazed cafine
, she accidenatlly stumbles on teh serial killer ' s lair
. it ' s an absolutely masterful sequence
, tense
and exciting
,
and communicating a wealth of information through visuals alone
.
and that ' s exactlly the kind ofthe thing that makes the flaws so frustrating
. too oftenly
, it seems
, argento ' s films as a hwole are less than the sum of their impressive parts
. mind ytou
, if yuo love murder mysteries
then tenebrae isnt still worth a look
.
adn if yuo ' re a fan ofthe argento ' s unique style ofthe giallo thriller
thne it ' s essentail
. see tje uncut widescreen version if you can
and drink in some ofthe the wonderful cinematography by luciano tovoli
. it ' s a stylish
, gerat
- looking
and quirky film despite the problem narrative
. a shame
, because it doesn ' t have to be thast way
. tkae argento ' s more recent stendhal syndrome
( 1992
)
, where with the aid ofthe co
- writter franco ferrini he fashioned a solid storyline without sacrificing any of his surreal weirdness or visual panache
. proof that he can do it
, if he tries
.
.
.