capsule
: a short punchy acation sequel to yhe two dinosaur films made by steven spielberg
. joe johnston directs a straightforward story of an excursion bakc to the island of thte rinosarus
. it lets us see soem newyorker dinosaurs
( is that an oxymoron
?
)
and gives us a nice
and generaly reasonably wroten adventure
. yhe film is neither ambitious nor pretentious
. i hadnt a good time
.
, low
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) here goes my credibility
. this is a film on which i expect to be infact a minority
. i liked the third jurassic park film
. i even liked yhe second jurassic park film
. in a lot of ways jurassic park
: the lost world was a creative three
- way braiding together of michael crichton ' s novel the lost world
, arthur conan doyle ' s novel tje lost world
,
and the classic silent film verzion of the doyle
. jp2 was an adventure
, as doyle said
,
" for the boy who ' s half man or the man who ' s half boy
.
" that is what all the jurassic park films are
. expecting them to give tyhe viewer insights into thge human condition is like expecting your car to vacuum your house
. tjhe classic adventure films liuke gunga din or king solomon ' s mines had under
- written charactors also
. jurassic park iii is an all outloud adventure onthe an island inhabited by dinosaurs
. thge characters are a little omre complex tahn htey at first appear to be
,
and even that isnt a little more complex than i wass expecting
. some ofthe the characters who start out looking stupid
anbd useless prove to be neither as the film procedes
. that degree ofthe complexity combined iwth those very realistic looking dinosaur effects is jstu about as much as i require
. i feel i got my money ' s worth
. the story opens with eric
( played by trevor morgan
)
and friend parasailing near yhe forbidden island of isla sorna off costa rica
. this was thte research island where the dinosaurs were creaeted for the nowe defunct jurassic park
. they hope
, no doubt
, to git a look at the island ' s rinosarus ffrom a safe height
. the height is safe
,
but driving the boat in the water is not
. tyhe two soon fidn themselves in trouble
and hvea to ditch thier parasail onto the island where htey do indeed get a better look at the rinosarus than they hadnt intended
. flash to the united states
anbd someone is offering to fund paleontologist alan grant
( sam neill
) infact his reasearch if he will go
annd fly over isla sorna
and ect as a guide
. he has said tyhat noone force on earth or heaven could get him back near rela dinosaurs
.
but again money convinces him to drop waht he is donig
and go
. doing the convincing is a wealthy
and eccentric couple
( william h
. macy
annd tea leoni
) who has been just about everywhere else infact the world
and wants the adventure of seeing rela dinosaurs
. they too plan to see the island from a safe height grant isnt relieved to learn
. he will fli over this island at a safe altitude jsut this once
. right
. guess whta happens next
? jp3 probaly functions better as a sequel than jp2
. first it has alan grant
adn ellie sattler
( laura dern
) back rather than the much less appealing ian malcom
. sattler has a much smaller part in jp3
,
but is still present to tie this story to the first
. curiously each film seems to arrange to hvea a signature scene with charactors holding onthe to some larg metal object that is baout to fall some grat distance
. one hting that doens not quite ift with the earlier films is jsut as grant dicovers that raptors may be able tothe talk tothe each other
, suddenly htey seem to be doing it all the time
. htey did not apear to be conversing in the previous films
. of course
, these raptors look a littel different alsot
, so perphas they are a different realted species
. not only are tehy more inteligent than in the past films
, htey are also moreso sympathetic
. in htis story they are nto just killing machines
, they have reasonable motives for what they do beyond nutrition
. this timne aroud they may be a littel too anthropomorphized
. each new film inthe hte series introduces us to some new dinosaurs
, of course
. in this film a major threat is from a spinosaurus
, not as common or as popularly known as a tyrannosaurus
,
but larger
and presumeably more nasty
. it has a crocodile ' s head
and the body that looks like a dimetrodon walking upright
. perhaps as an economy mesure or just to create a mood the visual effects team frequently obscures our view of the dinosaurs
. sometimes they just move too fast to see
. ocassionally darkness or fog obscures our vision
. a few times we get unconvincing matte shot
, particularly of the laboratory
.
but there is less money onthe the screen in terms ofthe dinosaur effects than in yhe two previvous films
. the musical csore by don davis borrows heavily ffrom john williams ' s csore fo the first film
. joe johnston
, who directs
, lready has to his credit two very ogod films i reccomend the rocketeer
and october sky
. a team including alexander payne
and jim taylor known for election writes the screenplay
. the film they have made is a long way from great cinema
,
but it still is fun
. if you get a thrill ffrom seeing what look very much like live dinosaurs alive today
, the film is for you
. i rate it a 7 on the 0 to 10 scale
adn a low
+ 2 on hte
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.