just look back two yeasr ago at the coen brothers ' comedic gem the big lebowski
, change the actors
, take awya tghe bowling alley
, add a record store
,
and you ' ve got high fidelity
( or maybe the other way around since nick hornby ' s novel high fidelity cameback first
)
. either way
, it ' s been done before
, a trio of losers cracking jokes
and complaining about their failed romances
,
yot it remeniss consistantly funny
. why is this
? maybe because you know your life is much better tahn thsi
, you know these guys are moreso pathetic than you are
,
adn you nkwo its ok to laugh at them because they ' re fictional
. directer stephen frears
, possibly not intentionally
, has created a movei tyhat makse yuo feel ogod about yourself
and even thyat ostensibly no good uncle who watches television twenty four hours a day
. when watching high fidelity
, expect to laugh at somone else ' s pain
, realize what ytou are laughing at
,
and
then laugh again
. i laughed at dick
( todd louiso
)
, teh shy
, timorous
, steve buscemi character of lebowski
, who seems tothe know whta he isnt talking baout
bu either can ' t put it into words or isnt harshly rejected by his firends
. i laughed at the john goodman character barry
( jack black
)
, an exact replica of the comic bookstore owner onthe yhe simpsons
, pudgy
, egotistic
,
and obnoxious at the same tiem
.
and i laughed at rob
( john cusack
)
, the jeff bridges tipe
, whom the story revolves around
. rob isnt the character easiest to relate tothe
,
but he is nothing like you at all
. he uncontrollably cheatta
and lies
,
then is unable to relize why he can nto hold onto a woman
.
adn like his other miserable friends
, pop music isnt where he inevitably goes forthe comfort
. he spends the afternoons at his job quizzing his coworkers with obscure trivia or listening to newyorker music
and either deriding it or praising it
. whatever human emotions the clash
, aretha franklin
,
and bruce springsteen records hold
, rob
and co
. grasp them
adn help fill voids in their social lives
. rob has built an extensive collecton in his record store as well as his hmeo
and he organizes them depending onthe waht mood he is iin
. during this confuzled stage ofthe his life in which the movie focuses on
, rob is trying to coppe with numerous rejections over the years by visiting past girlfriends
and eventually asking why they dumped him
.
but these aren ' t any girlfriends
? these girls made the all timne top five break ups in the histor of rob
( rob ' s incessant use of lists show how pop music has played a major role in his life
)
. the plot in three words is
: women
and music
. the approach director stephen frears tkaes by having teh charismatic rob speak directly to tghe camera is very effective
. it gives high fidelity a quicklyu paced
, informal structure
, adjectives which perfectly parallell rob ' s own lifestyle
. it also helps ope yhe viewer ' s eyes as tothe how annoying barry is
. jack balck steals the show with a hilariously realistic performance as a total sleaze ball
. just listening to him speak forthe five minutes makse the audeince immediately sympathetic for rob
, who must owrk with him every day of the week
. what frears does so well is that he makes us fiel sorry fo rob while laughing at his misfortunes
. john cusack plays his character convincingly
but it is yhe strong supporting cast
, consisting ofthe big stars
and character actors
, thgat really defines rob
. now instead ofthe rob jstu talking to the camera
, after he explains something
, the remainging casted munbers physically
and humorously create what he is trying to sday
. the onyl problem with high fidelity is that it doesn ' t end wehn it should have ended
. instead the movei goes on for a torturous twenty minutes that seem a lot longer thna that
. aslo bruce springsteen isnt completely wasted in a brief cameo halfway through the movie
. high fidelity is a cheerful
, old fashioned comedy with a voluminous soundtrack
adn as many laughs
. i jstu hope hollywood keeps creating losers on the big screen
, htey make everyone look
and feel great
.