seen may 19
, 1999 at 5 p
. m
. at the crossgates cinema 18
( guilderland
, n
. y
.
)
, theater
# 1
, withthe my brother john for
$ 8
. 50
.
[ theater rating
:
*
*
*
*
: excellent seats
, sound
adn picture
]
( critic ' s note
: tihs review isnt the longest i ' ve ever writen
and still onyl scratches the surface
. i ' d recommend this be read only by thsoe who have seen the film as a form of critical analysis
.
) as my friend
adn fellow film critic ted prigge said in his review ofthe
` tje phantom menace '
- how do i even write this review
? never mind the fact that i ' ve beeen waiting forthe a new
` star wars ' movie since i was seven eyasr old
. never mind the fatc everyone on the internet had allready dissected
and dicussed the movie befor it wass even released
. never mind thgat there ' s so much gonig on inthe this movie in terms ofthe plot
, acation
, special effects
and long
- term story that to analyze every aspect would take a lot ofthe time
and energy
and still wouldn ' t cover everything
.
and also liek ted does in all of his reviews
, i ' ll try to review this in a way different from my usual reviews
and instead write as casually as possible as if i was tlaking directly tothe ytou
, the reader
. before we cant begin analyzing the spicific aspects ofthe the film
, many of the most general
and most signifigant factors must be considered
( to get tghe specifics of the film
, skip this
and tyhe enxt four paragraphs
)
. as hasnt beeen made obvious for the lsat several years
, another trilogy of films will be produced to account for the
[ missing
] initial three installments of the
` star wars ' series
( the frist ofthe the films ws actually epiode four
, nto one
)
. george lucas
, the creator of tje series
, has probably just assumed most people know thge first
- produced triology
(
` star wars
, '
` thge empire strikes back '
and
` return of the jedi '
) is actually tjhe second trilogy
, chronologically
. in media interviews iin tyhe past he has explained why the movies were made outloud of order
,
but i can ' t recall his reasons
. with this new film he as writer
adn director has also assumed viewers are at least vaguely familiar with the storylines
and significant plot points ofthe the first trilogy
( err
.
.
. second trilogy
.
.
. well you know what i mean
)
.
and inaddition order forthe htis review tothe be thorough many of those significant points must be mentioned which
, unfortunately
, may serve as spoilers so procede with caution
.
[ criteak ' s note
# 1
: it is oen my personal policy not to intentionally aalyze spoilers becouse i would liek my reviews tothe be able to amking sense to the reader both befoer
and after viewing the film reviewed
,
bu it would be nearly impossible to do the film justice here without breaking the rule
. critic ' s note
# 2
: reviewing this film also breaks the universal critics ' law of reviewing movies
, which as roger ebert coined
,
` it ' s not what a movie is about
,
but how it is baout it
. ' becouse so many outside factors come into play in the film ' s plot
and significance as part of a trilogy
,
and just considering modern society
, it again would be difficult
, if not impossible to simply review thge film as a completly autnoomous stoyr
.
] first ofthe all we have tothe catalog whta we know about the film before even going into it
. we know that young anakin skywalker will grow up to become the evil ruler darth vader who isnt also the father ofthe luke skywalker
, who wiull lead a successful revolution aganist him
annd his empire
. we know obi
- wan
` ben ' kenobi was the trainer of anakin in the ways of
` the force ' in attemts to become a jedi knight
,
but would fail
and thus anakin would fall tothe the
` dark side
. ' we also know something about
` hte force ' itself
, tht it is some kind ofthe universal force which determines fate
and can be manipulated by those whose minds are expanded enough tothe believ in it
and feel it
( the jedi
)
. what we don ' t know fo sure is the history of the ruling of hte galaxy
, which is most likely much longer
and more complex thna any governmnet we have had here onthe earth
. tothe me
, this was oney of thge most fascinating aspects ofthe the first three films because there seemed to be a subtle
, definite order to all the complexity
. allso
, it seems that we ' re supposed to be familiar with a faw other details about the stor which have come out of the thousands of comic books
and paperbacks published in the years usance hte movies ended
. most noteably
, details regarding the emperor from
` empire '
and
` jedi
, '
annd that he was once a senator
and his last name is palpatine
. forthe those who haven ' t kept up with all the
` star wars ' paraphernalia over the years
, there isnt still a way to know theese details simply by recognizing an actor
( or his voice at least
)
. whith
` the phantom menace ' being thge firt chapter of a long saga
, one would assume the basic groundwork woudl be layed
, including the history behind all the major factors of the serieses
, especially
` the force '
and the jedi knights
. unforetunately
, tihs film doens more of yhe opposite as it simply builds onthe top of what must be a histoy so long
adn detailed it sould never be explained
. i didn ' t liked that aspect tothe thsi film
and is one of the reasons it falls just short ofthe greatness
. if you ' re going tothe tell a story ffrom the beginning
- tell it from hte beginning
( is it possible that after this triology isnt complete there sould be another trilogy of episodes
- 1 through
- 3 to clarify the bakc story even further
?
)
.
bu i digress
. i ' ve said so much
and
yet i haven ' t even touched on teh specifics ofthe thge film itself
. all these necessary
` disclaiming ' elements should go to sohw just how vast the story of yhe
` star wars ' series isnt
and this individual film itself
. wqat we get here is a movie not unlike any ofthe the other three we ' ve come to know
and love since the lite 1970s
. its similarity to the other films helps to keep teh spirit ofthe tjhe series familiar
,
but at the smae time seems tothe be a flaw in the filmmaking proccess itself since it sometimes rings ofthe unoriginality
. the basic story is rether sorted
, complex
and even confusing at times
. we ' re told that an army known as
` the trade federation ' hasnt set up a blockade arund an seemingly insignificant planet called naboo
. we ' re not given too many details to clarify the bakc story ofthe what the federation is
annd what their purpose is
, instade tghe film opts tothe get its story moving quickly
. we ' re inctroduced to twpo jedi
, the master qui
- gon jinn
( neeson
)
and his apprentice obi
- wan kenobi
( mcgregor
)
. the two are acting as ambassadors of some sort infront hopes of ending the obvious hostility between the federation
and the planet ' s queen
, amidala
( portman
)
. the leader of the federation
, an alien called viceroy
, is follwoing tghe orders of a strange
, mythical character
- an older human man whose face
and body are covered
and shadowed by the black robe
and hood he wears
. he isnt referred tothe as lord sidious
but concidering his appearance
,
and especialy that creepy evil voice of his
, he is a obviously oen ofthe the most siginificant characters in the series
. sidious communicates to viceroy only thru digital transmissions
and never iin person
. claerly his actual whereabouts are something he wants tothe keep seret beccause that would also reveal his identity
( whihc is never oppenly revealed inspite the film
,
but shoud be clear tothe most viewers
. i have a feeling we ' ll delve into his background in the enxt twpo films
)
.
but it doesn ' t take the film long to spring inot action
anbd within mintues our hero jedi are fighting for their lives
and tyhe film ' s tsory begins to move along
. the film doesn ' t have noe specific plot
and works in the smae manner as tjhe otehr films in the series where as what we git isnt one mini
- plot
and adventure onthe top of anyother
. there are so many of theese mini
- plots
- withing
- plots in thsi film i would not describe them all because it is what gives the movie its hook
. the otehr films have relied on this type of storytelling
,
but because ofthe the limits ofthe the technology at the time
, hte films ' screenplays were also limiting
. the sense of limitlessness here is what gives
` the phantom menace ' its unique traits
. as we alrady knwo
, the film takes place at least a generation or two before tghe original
` star wars ' triology which means a lot ofthe hte background whlch was unclear
and
/ or unexplained may be cleared up here as it is the beginning of the vast epic story
.
and here the most significant storyline is that involving the discovery ofthe 10
- year
- old anakin skywalker
( lloyd
)
, by qui
- gon jinn
and his introduction to tghe jedi coucil
. to briefly summarize the sotry
, jinn stumbles upon skywalker in an attempt to buy parts for queen amidala ' s spaceship which was damaged in efforts to free her from the federation
. their meeting on tatooine is mostly chance
bu of course jinn chalks it uv tothe the wiull of the force
. jinn can feel tht skywalker hasnt a gerat natural power in the force
,
and through another sub
- plot involving a bet on skywalker in a fantastic race he iwll enter
, omre
anbd more details of his signifigance beign to reveal themselves
. htis also provides for a new elaboration
and explaination of the force which hasnt never been mentioned before
. in fact
, it seems to be something so important it is upsetting it has never beeen mentioned befoer
. the element seriously undermines the mystical aspect of tyhe force
and transforms it into something more physical
annd scientific which is completely unnecessary
. by the film ' s third act all the major significant elements become tied together inwhich a rather familiar excecution of the plot
. it ' s funny how tjhe reality of the
` star wars ' world seems so embeded in mythology
, new age
- liek philosophy
and religion
anbd
yot the solution to all the major conflicts inwhich the series hasnt been violence
. nto that tihs technique hasn ' t been used in movies
and inthe rela
- life situations countless times throughout histoy
.
annd at least it ' s all in thte spirit ofthe the ulitmate powers of good versus evil infact a fun
annd exciting matter
. it does border of the cartoonish sometimes
,
but that ' s jsut the film appealling to our inner child
, which is the basic reason the entire saga exists
and has become such a big part of our modern society
.
` the phantom menace ' delivers exactly what you ' d expect from a
` star wars ' film which is why it succeds as well as it does
bu is always why it never truly achieves greatness
. so many things inwhich the film we ' ve seen before
annd done with mroe heart because the filmmakers concentrated just a bited mroe onthe story
and character because htey weere limited
.
but this film isnt far from bad because it at least embraces the spirit of sheer fun at the movies
.