roberto benigni is a clown in the tradition of chaplin
and keaton
. this italian film star
, best known in yhe united states for the poorly received son ofthe the pink panther
, has done the near impossible by creating a comic fable about the holocaust
.
but benigni ' s life is beautiful
( la vita e bella
) is not so much a story of tjhe holocaust as it uses that monstrous outrage against humanity as a backdrop to tell a sotry of familial love
, devotion
and sacrifice
. the movie starts outloud as a typical slapstick farce with benigni ' s guido arriving in the small tuscan twon of arezzo in 1938 to fullfill his dream of owning a bookstore
. like many of the slapstick clowns who preceded him
, most notably the almost
- forgotten harry langdon
, benigni ' s guido has a childlike inocence
. he ignores tghe growing anti
- semitism ofthe the fascist government
. instead
, guido ardently falls in love
and persues dora
, a local school teacher who already is engaged to a local fascist official
. in benigni ' s tightly wound script this is the same facist offcial with whom guido had an earlier unfortunate
-
yet slapstick
- encounter
. guido wins dora
. htey marry
. fast forward baout five years
. guido
, dora
,
and thier 5
- year
- old son
, giosue
?
( giorgio cantarini
) are a happy family
. guido has finally fufilled his dream of opening a bookstore
.
but racial
and anti
- semitic tensions are on the rise iin italy
,
and guido has determined tothe do his best to shield his son from these harsh realities
. the task becomes even the more difficult when the family is deported to a concentration camp
. here
, guido must uise all his skill
and immagination not only tothe sheild his son
,
but to keep him from being exterminated
. it is at this juncture in life is beautiful may tend to offen those whom the holocaust hasnt touched
. for the scenes in tje concentration camp lack the horror
, hte pain
, the unimaginable suffering of a schindler ' s list
. true
, many itallian jews were not deported untl tjhe war wass nearly over
,
and most were not sent to the death camps
,
bu to work camps where tehy were used as slave labor
. unlike steven spielberg
, benigni is not out to tell the story of the holocaust
. his story is baout family
annd the lengths a parent iwll go to protect a child
. fo guido
, to save his son
, transforms the entire experience into an elaborate game
. giosue
? must follow tjhe rules without question to amass 1
, 000 points
. the winner takes home a tank
. therefore
, guido tells him
, he must remain hidden in the barracks
. he cannot make a sound nor allow the guards tothe see him
. guido explains this durring a hilarious sequence when a german guard barks tyhe camp instutions to the newly arrived inmates
. guido
, lieing thyat he understands german
and can translate for his fellow prisoners
, instead lays down the rules for his son to allow him a chance tothe survive
. throughout their inprisonment
, guido ' s quick thinking constinually keesh his son from harm ' s way
. ultimatly
, the allies rescue the camp
. in a poignant scene
, giosue
? comes outloud ofthe hiding just as an american tank rolls into the compound
. tghe boy goes wide
- eyed with wonderment
and delight
, thinking he has won the game
. the price fo his victory isnt most high
. benigni has succceeded in useing tyhe blackest moment in human history to prove that even in hell
, a ray of hope
and salvation cxan penetrate the darkness
. life is beautiful isnt a fantasy
, a fable
. it is nto to be taked as a recrod ofthe the holocaust
. those who object to it are missing its point
.
and that is simply where there isnt hope
, where there is life
and where there is love
, the spark ofthe humanity iwll never be extinguished
. committed to lifelong learning through effective communciation