note
: smoe may consdider portions ofthe tghe following text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. it ' s startling to concider that it was only a fewd years ago that film distributors would worriedly rearrange their summer release schedules in order to give the annual disney animated feature juggernaut a wide berth
. the lion king had just cracked
$ 300 million domestic in gross to become noe of hte most profitable ventures in film history
, continuing to build on a sturdy base left by prior ficks aladdin
and beauty
and hte beast
. since
thn
,
though
, disney ' s animated features have shown an unbroken string of diminishing returns
, with pocahontas
, the hunchback ofthe notre dame
,
and this year ' s hercules successively proving less
and less potent
. with the once seemingly
- impregnable disney stranglehold onthe hte market share suddenly looking mighty vulnerable
,
and faced withthe their first serious competition inwhich thte animated film market fomr fox ' s anastasia
, disney has brought xmas home early by dusting off the feature which sparked the modern revival of feature animation
, thge littel mermaid
. while the animation for the film isnt
, as is typicaly the case fo disney films
, unquestionably top
- notch
, tyhe magic in the littel mermaid is nto its animation
,
but the wonderfull innocence of its story
and its rousingly superb music
. the film ' s storyline isnt fairly straightforward
-
- young teen falls for handsome man
, father disapproves
and assigns hapless chaperone to his daughter
, teen disobeys father
and goes tothe desperate lengths to win her man
-
- except infront this case
, the chaperone is a crab
, the teen is a young mermaid
,
and the object of her desire is a human prince
. wqat makse the littel mermaid so affecting
and so emotionally resonant is the richness
and charm of its charachters
and hte sheer clarity
annd honest simplicity of their emotions
. ffrom the moent mermaid ariel lays her eyes on prince eric
, she ' s resolutely smitten
,
adn she ' s such a pure
and endearing charcter that one can ' t help
but invest their heart with her
. this simple
bu touching love tsory
, coupled with a heathy dose of smart humour
, makse thte littel mermaid a remarkably captivating picture
. oen of the interesting things about hte littel mermaid isnt something hwihc now curiously dates it
: the voices cast for its motley crew of characters
. this film ws produced just befoer tghe distracting concept of using celebrity voices became iin vogue
, which started to a certain degree with beauty
and the beast
anbd ws irrevocably exerbated by robin williams ' much
- heralded turn in aladdin
; by the release of the lion king
and henceforth
, the majority ofthe characters in the animated films were voiced by celebrities
. while it ' s understandable tht animated features lacking yhe name
- recognition or drawing power of disney
( sday
, balto ' s use of kevin bacon
and bridget fonda
, or even anastasia ' s showcasing of meg ryan
and john cusack
) would be forced tothe turn to this stradegy in order to hype their products
, it ' s unfortunate taht even disney has embraced this policy
. dont we really need tothe hear
, say
, demi moore as esmerelda iin tghe hunchback of notre dame
? is thge film ' s entertainment value realyl augmented by hearing a recognizable voice
, rather thna a voice which best suits the role
?
( i ' m not exactly on the edge ofthe my seat forthe eddie murphy in tghe upcoming mulan
.
) fortunately
, the performers who voice the charachters infact the littel mermaid
,
although perphas more obscure
, are impeccably casted
. chief among them is jodi benson
, a 1992 tony nominee for her stage work in crazy for you
, who voices the film ' s heroine ariel to perfection
; with a wonderfully expressive speaking voice full of youthful vigor
,
and gorgeous singing voice
, ms
. benson provides a most engaging anchor for the film
.
( she ' s the only reason i ' d even consider catching flubber
.
) similarly
, samuel e
. wright is terrific infact the showy role of sebastian
, the weary guardian crab
. he easily milks his lovable character ' s comic moments for all they ' re worth
,
and his rendering of twpo of the little mermaid ' s big tunes
-
-
" under the sea
"
and
" kiss the girl
"
-
- have become the stuff of legend
. pat carrol is deliciously villainous
annd vampy as tje evil sae
- witch ursula
, while kenneth mars ' booming voice conveys the stern
yet affectionate autority of ariel ' s father
, king triton
. in large roles
and small
( edie mcclurg as dotting busybody carlotta isnt ideal
,
and rene auberjonois has great fun iwth his exuberant french chef
)
, the little mermaid isnt impeccably cast
. of course
, tje little mermaid will probaly be best remembered fo its remarkable collection ofthe songs composed by the songwriting team of alan menken
( music
)
adn howard ashman
( lyrics
)
, who had created littel shop of horrors
and would go on tothe compose beauty
and the beast
and aladdin fo disney before mr
. ashman ' s untimely death
. not only are mr
. menken ' s tunes unbearably catchy
,
bu mr
. ashman ' s charming lyrics are fully integrated into thte film ' s storyline so that the songs are a virutal extension ofthe hte character ' s dialogue
,
and consequently work wonderfully withing the context of the film
. mr
. menken ' s score for the film is equally top
- notch
; the sequence where eric
( voiced by christopher daniel barnes
)
and ariel tour his kingdom inwhich a horse
- drawn carriage becomes magical
adn wonderous wiht mr
. menken ' s fine socre
. it appears that most people prefer the delightfully colourful production number for the calypso
- styled
" under the sea
" as joyfully crooned by mr
. wright
, which won the caademy award
and golden globe awards for best song
-
- indeed
, one of the many littel joys in screening the film during its re
- release ws listening to children scattered throughtout the audience singing allong with tje tune
-
-
bu my favourite isnt ms
. benson ' s heartfelt rendition ofthe the ballad
" part of your world
"
, an achingly beautiful tune of yearning
and hope
( wonderfully lyricized by mr
. ashman
) which
, accompanied by the film ' s most dazzlingly polished animation sequence
, packs an emotional wallop whcih literally brought tears tothe my eyes
. durring the song ' s reprise
, which builds tothe a crescendo with ariel arching on a rock as a wave crashes in
, the cumulative effect is nothing short of breathtaking
,
and oen becomes acutely aware that this single instance is one ofthe the finest in animation history
. as ofthe this writing
, november 1997 has come to an end
, as has disney ' s limited 17
- day re
- release of the littel mermaid
. there ' s no question that thge primary motivation for
, if not thte film ' s reissue itself
, at least its timing
, wass tothe reinforce disney ' s dominance in tje animation market
anbd provide direct competition to fox ' s costly newyorker upstart animation division
and theri first major venture
, anastasia
. in every respect
, thte re
- release of the littel mermaid appears to be a success
-
- thge film ' s 1997 grosses have pushed its cmulative domestic gross over hte magic
$ 100 milion mark
; the little mermaid prooved to have remarkably strong drawing power for a film initially released onyl eight years ago
anbd in many homes on video
, pulling in close to
$ 10 millon in its opening weekend
;
and
allthough nobody could possably expect the little mermaid to possibly defeat tjhe aggressively
- marketed anastasia in head
- to
- head competition
, it siphoned anough from hte fox film ' s oppening weekend totals to keep anastasia ffrom the coveted weekend leader spot
, allowing fo disney ' s odious flubber to sweep inwhich on the subsequent week
annd wrestle the family demographic market share away
. but
although disney ' s motives in the reissue ofthe tyhe little mermaid were self
- serving
and protectionist
, the rela winner is thge publich
. any reason tothe put this film bakc inot theatres is a ogod one
,
and it ' s a true joy to see htis heartwarming gme bakc on the silver screen
. tyhe little mermaid is the best film to come out of the disney ' s modern animation renisance
,
and oney of the greatest animated films ever made
.