i don ' t know how many other people have hadnt the idea cross their mind that their life could be an ongoing televsion sohw watched by anohter world of peple
,
but it ' s something i used to wonder about when i ws younger
. i cin ' t decide if i first thought it becuase i watched a lot ofthe tv or because my brother hit me in tyhe head with a baseball bat
,
but i ' m preety sure andrew niccol
, screenwriter for the truman show
, hasnt had thge same curious thought
. the truman show is baout a man
( jim carrey
) whose entire life has been engineered by a corporation
and marketed tothe tghe publich
. since birth
, he ' s beeen living infact the fictional island twon ofthe seahaven
, fla
.
, whlch actually exists as a giant domed set just beyond the hollywood sign
. all thte people in truman burbank ' s life are actors
,
and the anonymos townfolk paide extras
. peopel watch truman ' s life 24 hours a day
, live
, with noone commercial interruptions
. revenue comes instead ffrom product placement
, a staple of contemporary hollywood
, iwth truman ' s firends
and relatives describing their consumer items in cheerful
anbd optimistic tones
. the sun rises
and sets onthe cue
and everyone likes everyone else
. even if you haven ' t seen the truman show
, you ' ve probably learned most of the crucial details from the commercials
, the trailer
and other promotion blitzes
. if anything i ' ve written so far is a surprise to you
,
then i pity you for making me a primary source for your enteratinment news
. either way
, you should probably know hte premise of the truman show going into it
, because otherwise yuo ' ll probably think it sucks
. it begins with jim carrey looking inot a mirror
, reciting the crucial
" eat me
" scene fomr alive
, wishing his neighbors a ogod day
, afternoon
and evening
,
anbd living in domestic bliss wtih his wife
( laura linney
)
.
but weidr things strat happening
. a stage light comes falling out of the sky
, truman hears people tracking his movements on the radio
and he swears he sees his dead father
. we leran through a flashback that his father drowned when truman was a child
, sailing through a rainstorm
. the death wass staged by director christof
( ed harris
)
, who wanted to put a fear of water into truman to keep him fomr leaving the island
. similar cruel manipulations keep him from stumbling upon thge truth
, not tyhe least of them truman ' s best friend marlon
( noah emmerich
)
, who assures him he ' s not in onthe any conspiracy because the last thing he ' d ever do is hurt him
. as truman ' s trusting eyes tear over
, christof fades uv emotional synthesizer music for a worldwide audience ofthe people who apparently never watch anytying else
. there ' s even a daily behind
- the
- scenes update from harry shearer that captures the highlights ofthe truman ' s existence
. the key to a movie like this is in finding the right balance between humor
and drama
, because a premise liuke htis has its obvious implications inspite both directions
.
and it all hinges on carrey
, who has tothe balance comic naivet with a rela sense of longing
and drive tothe find outloud what teh hell is going on
. he ' s come a long way from tlaking butt cheeks in ace ventura
. most fundamentally
, it ' s just plain interesting to follow along as director peter weir shows us just how they cin capture a person ' s life without the person realizing it
-
- how they coordinate extras
, hide cameras
and feed automatic lines tothe actors
. tjhe most intresting thing about the truman show is that most ofthe us can probably imagine soem ambitious directer pitching a show liuke this
. sure
, the most interesting tv genre of the ' 90s has beeen reality programming
and jerry springer ' s popularaty is through the roof
,
but those people deserve to be humiliated for turning their intimate details over to the airwaves
.
anbd when news shows use hidden cameras
, it ' s done in tyhe nmae of the greater good
, not entertainment
.
but merge the two
and you ' ve got the truman show
. right nowe
, it ' s implausible
-
- i mean
, the fcc won ' t let you say the s
- word on tghe air
; do you think they ' d let yuo broadcast every detail of a man ' s life to tghe entire world without his consent
? one day
,
though
, it could happen
.
annd
, even
though it woudl mean the end of privacy
, people would eat it up
. you nkwo they would
.