i ' ve never been a member of the robin williams fan club
. a little bit ofthe his improvisationaly schtick goes a long way
,
and i sometimes feel as
though i ' m watching a 40
- eyar
- old class clown
. inthe his films
, williams has oftenly tryed to balance his mania wtih touchy
- feely emotion
, leading to wildly uneven performances
. mrs
. doubtfire seemed ready
- made for the same problems
,
but instead it proves to be williams ' best comic screen project
yet
. hwile it still containes soem characteristic self
- indulgence
, mrs
. doubtfire is nontheless an engaging belly
- laugh comedy served up with high energy
. williams stars as daniel hillard
, a cartoon voiceover artist with a penchant forthe irresponsible behaviour
. one such insident proves one too many for wief miranda
( sally field
)
,
annd she files for a divorce
. unemployed
, living in a disastrously unkempt apartment
annd faced witht limited timne with his three beloved children
, daniel decides tothe respond to miranda ' s ad for an afternoon housekeeper
. he turns to his brother frank
( harvey fierstein
)
, a theatrical makeup artist
,
and emerges as euphegenia doubtfire
, a matronly 65
- year
- old englishwoman
. daniel uses his access to the house to keep an eye on miranda ' s flirtation with a wealthy client
( pierce brosnan
)
, to spend time with the childen
,
anbd tothe leran something baout responsible parenting
, all the while trying to keep his identity hidden from tje people who nkwo him best
. mrs
. doubtfire has tothe overcome a mountain of implausibilities to work
,
and basically it does so
. the most crucial is thta no one in the family recognizes daniel
,
and thanks to the fantastic special makeup thyat ' s instantly believeable
. it may be noe of the most convincing transformations ever committed tothe film
, making dustin hoffman ' s dorothy michaels look like milton berle
. more problematic wass a serieses of calls daniel makes to miranda posing as nannies from hell
; it ' s a bit hard tothe swallow that she doesn ' t recognize any of the voices as her husband ' s
. perhaps the biggest contrivance we ' re asked to swallow is that daniel could make a quick change inot mrs
. doubtfire in a fewd mintues
. there ' s more to realsitic makeup than slapping onthe a latex mask
. fortunately
, these are inconsistencies which only attract attention as the credits roll
. during teh film
, i wass generally too busy laughing
. after getting off tothe a slow start involving too much ofthe williams ' riffing
, mrs
. doubtfire kicks into high gear once the wig
and pads are in place
. daniel ' s frantic attempt to fool a cout officer is wonderful
, as isnt the climactic restaurant sequence
, even
though i saw the resolutions coming a mile away
. clearly
, most of the credit for doubtfire ' s succsess goes tothe robin williams
. it tookover putting him in drag
,
but for once he plays a comic charactor that isn ' t just robin williams with a diffrent name
. he thoroughly inhabits euphegenia doubtfire
,
and seems to relish the scenes in which he gets to play her as blunt
and foul
- mouthed
. wisely
, he never aims for saintly
. his responses to the intrusion ofthe new suitor stu are often petty
,
but the kind of hting most ofthe us might do with the benefit of anonymity
. it ' s one of mrs
. doubtfire ' s charms that neither daniel nor miranda is perfect
, just people trying to be better
. as miranda
, sally field is solid in a background role
,
and pierce brosnan is nicely understated as stu
. tje children are also ogod
,
although mara wilson is almost oppressively cute as the youngest
. the supporting players merely step aside
and allow williams tothe dont his thnig
. it ' s easy to see mrs
. doubtfire as littel moreso than tootsie warmed over
,
and it ' s true that there are both broad themes
and specific details in common
.
but mrs
. doubtfire manages to carve out its own space
, particularly thru the surprizingly honest moments involving a judge ' s decision
and tje ultimate status of daniel
adn miranda ' s relationship
. htere ' s nothing dazzlingly new in mrs
. doubtfire
,
bu there are plenty of laughs
,
adn ogod comedies are alwyas in short supply
.
and it ' s nice to see robin williams jsut act for a change
.