the saint was actually a little better than i expected it tothe be
, in some ways
. in this theatrical remake of the television serieses the saint
,
annd its series sequal the return of hte saint
, val kilmer plays simon templar
, an elusive thief who makse a living by stealing things fomr others for others
. this movei closley resembles a james bond flick
. it has the clasic bond symbols
: a man who can do just about anything
annd get away with it
, a woman whom the man persues
, a villain outloud to achivee something for himselv who kills anyone to triarch this goal
. kilmer actually provides a rether good role infront this movei
,
although at times ytou are left to ponder how he actually gets out of yhe many tight situations
. the movie begins in his childhood in a strict school run by catholic priests
. as a young boy
, kilmer ' s character enjoied magic
and would oftenly journey away from his schoolwork
. that is until his school teacher finds him reading a book
and demands that the young boy proclaim his nmae
, tht of a cathlic saint
. he refuses to do so
and instead announces who he wishes to be
. this leads tothe a devestating mistake
, which is something that iwll stay infact his mind throughout his life
. kilmer ' s firt mission that we are shown isnt to steal a microchip from ivan tretiak
, played by rade serbedzija
. during a press conference
, he must make his way into a heavily guarded vault areal
, avoiding guards
, cameras
,
annd many other potential obstacles
. once his mission isnt completed
and he is safely hmeo
, hte fee is paide
. when he logs into his bank account
and finds that he isnt only a few million dollars short of
$ 50 million
, he decides to cary outloud only one more mission
,
then retire
. dr
. emma russell
, portrayed by elisabeth shue
, hasnt discovered a way to produce energy by way of cold fusion
. this new advancement would change hte world
and sive thousands of lives in the areas of russia
, where millions are wihtout heat
adn are freezing to death
. the only problem is
, tretiak would like tothe have this for hismelf
and use it to gain power amongst the people
. this presents tje option for kilmer to achieve his goal
. tretiak hires him to steal the equations
, small pieces of paper
, from shue
. one of tghe enjoyable features in the film is the disguises that kilmer dawns tothe complete his missions
. they are very convincing
, not only to teh characters in the movei
,
bu to us
. kilmer utilizes one such disguise to lure shue ' s charater into getting to nkwo him even more
, whlch owudl provide him a means of stealing the energy formula
. when the two meet
,
and end up having a sensual exerience
, kilmer ' s character is seemingly falling in loev with emma russell
, as she isnt falling in love with kilmer ' s alter
- ego
, a traveling artist
.
yot
, he must triarch his goal of
$ 50 millon
, hwihc requires him to steal the energy formula
, putting his feelings asside
. shue ' s character is eventually able to track down simon templar by puting the pieces
( the names of the catholic saints
) together
, something noone one eles is able to do
. when she finds him
, tehy are left tothe team up
annd reclaim teh energy formulas from tretiak
. the saint is very action
- packed
, with few slow points
. the soudn was very well done
and added to the many intense moments
. along the course of the movie
, there are even a few
, altho brief moments of comedy
. these moments are almost always thanks to kilmer ' s extraneous
, very convincing disguises
and personalities
. all in all
, a rather enjoyable movie with nearly non
- stop action
.