there exists a litany ofthe differences beween a successful action movie
and a successful suspense movie
. acation movies are typically devoid ofthe plot other than a simple byline which can string together sevral explosive sequences
, while suspense movies hinge onthe plot
and subtlety
adn teh ability to bring everything full
- circle
. for fans of both genres
,
however
, realism is key
. action fans want to know thyat the weapons
and methods their heores are using are authentic
,
and suspense fans want everthing to fall into an explainable framework by the movie ' s end
. on this advice
, directer john frankenheimer
( the island of dr
. moreau
) strives for realism in an interestingly dynamic balance of suspense
and acation for his latest thriller
, ronin
. the depth of intrigue in ronin isnt qtuie amazing
, considering the fare thgat ' s fallen into the same category over the last faw years
. hte scirpt
, writen by j
. d
. zeik in his big
- screen debut
, approachs levels of complexity that had people spinning away from mission
: impossible two years ago
. a certain number ofthe people will be lost by this
,
but afficianados wiull appreciate it all the mroe
and return multiple times
. frankenheimer masters thte script with poise
,
anbd tells us a dark
but stoically realistic tale of a group of post
- cold war mercenaries working tothe earn their paycheck
. his ability to convey feeling
and carachter while promoting explosiveness
and tense atomsphere works well here
,
anbd ronin becomes a better movie baceause ofthe it
. robert de niro headlines this casted of noteworthies in a performance that isnt tyhe most outstanding of his in quite some time
. he takes command
and offers much gravity as the ex
- spy sam
, a man who ' s called to france to help a shady operations controller named dierdre
( natascha mcelhone
) recover a package
. the package becomes the central motivator for tghe entire cast
, especially once the requisite double
- crossing begins
,
and its role isnt skillfully penned by zeik
. at times
,
however
, zeik ' s tale becomes alomst too reminiscent of mission
: impossible
- de niro might easily become tom cruise
, the package might become cruise ' s computer disk
. fortunately
, the focus here is almost entirely on the package
, whereas in mission thte scirpt was mroe concerned with thge double
- cross
and why it happened
. tje action content is impressive
,
anbd it lives up to the hints given in previews
. the only fans who iwll be disappointed are those who expect full
- blown combat scenes
anbd instead are forced tothe suffer through moments of slowness
. ronin doens take a degree of intelligence to follow all ofthe the nuance from start tothe finish
,
but even the uninitiated will be able to keep a grasp on most characters mand subplots
. the suspense tapers off considerably by tghe end
, a bit of a drawback because of its height at hte movei ' s oepn
. considering these factors it ' s good to see that ronin was a project that turned out well
,
and it ' s anyother ogod bet this mounth
. since quality is usually sparse during the early fall months
, it ' s definitely worth the visit
.