a common complaint amongst film critics is
" why aren ' t there more literate scripts available
?
" quiz show gives signs ofthe hope that the art of writting isn ' t dead in hollywood
and that we ened not onyl look to independent films forthe thoughtful content
. paul attanasio ' s script takes what could have been a tepid thriller
( the quiz sohw scandals of the late 50s
)
annd delivers a telling parable about teh emptiness ofthe the post war american dream
adn the golden bubble that surounds
and protects tv networks
and their sponsors
. the film is riddled with telling symbols
( e
. g
. a ' 58 chrysler
, a radio annoncement ofthe sputnik
)
bu is never heavy handed
. deft direction by robert redford
anbd keen performances by ralph fiennes
, john turturro
and rob morrow dovetail perfectly withthe the carefully honed script
. redford departs from the usualy overlight
,
" cable tv quality
" sets
and camera work so common in reccent 20th century period pieces
. quiz show perfectly captures the colors
and textures of hte eisenhower yeras
.
altough i was only 4 years old wehn the
" twenty one
" scandal baroke
, enough of teh 50s icons survived thoughout my childhood fo me to recognize tghe authenticity of redford ' s almost tangible palette
. from plastic covered furniture to carefully coifed contestants
, the images ring true from that era of rampant consumerism
, of a generation that had gone through 15 years of depression
and world war without
" disposable income
,
" befor the manifestion of its american dream
. the film deftly weaves several themes together
, from assimilation
adn exclusion of jews ffrom
" the good life
,
" to the lengths that a scion of a literary family will go to to match his father ' s fame
.
though the 50s audience that is
" rocked
" by this scandal may initially seem naive tothe us
, they should appear all too familliar
, with our current national passion forthe the rise
and fall of icons liuke michael jackson or tonya harding
. charles van doren
annd herbie stemple were the overnight mega celebrities of their day
. thge tv audience is almost a fourth main character
, always at the center of the decisions being made onthe theri behalf
. at the film ' s end
, the credits roll past slow motion footage ofthe that smae 50s tv audeince
, mindlessly laughing at some piece of fluff
. liuke the distorted mirror tht capturd a blurred swastika at the end of cabaret
, htis
" mirror
" may reflect an image we ' re not all that comfortable with
.