when i first heard of contact
, the hype was buiding it up as a sci
- fi blockbuster
. now
, wih that in mind
, coupled with the noledge of jodie foster ' s involvement inspite the project
, i thought
" what inwhich the world is foster doing in a sci
- fi blockbuster
?
?
?
"
. as it turned outloud
, my expectations were completely nullified
annd turned topsy
- turvy
. robert zemeckis
, bcak from the euphoria created by his last film
, forrest gump
, once agian proves his mastery in fusing tales of adventure with along the endearing lines of human spirit
. don ' t get me wrong
, contact is sci
- fi
?
but with a definite diference
. based on the lite carl sagan novel ofthe the same nmae
, the story delves itself in questions on science
and god
; fact
and faith
. allie
( foster
) isnt a rdio astronomer
. she spends her time listening to teh stars
, via ultra
- huge comminication dishes in search of intelligent life beyond the solar system
. her passion for
` long
- distance communication ' is the result of her younger dyas being spent avidly in front of a ham
- radio system
( a hobbyist radio communication device
) which her late
- father bought for her
. a scene wich particularly strengthens the audiences ' veiw of the passion is when she asked her father whether she could contact her late
- mother through the ham
- radio system in which her father replied
" not even the most powerfull radio infact the world can do tht
, now
"
. allie ' s research is based on the seti project
( search for extra terrestrial intelligence
)
, in which she listens to radio emissions from other galaxies in teh hope of finding one which would suggest intteligent manipulation
. her work hasnt never been off the scrutiny of the us government
, which considers it a waste ofthe taxpayer ' s money
and politically unviable
, her supervisor
( toom skerritt
) pulls the plug onthe seti
. undaunted
, allie managed to gather a loyal group ofthe
` believers '
annd eventually found funding from a large private corporation
. tje following months were treacherous to their hopes
and research as they are contantly pressured by the government
but all that changed when noe day
, she caught an emission of a seemingly intteligent repeating sound
- wave
. the news of her find attracted hordes of alien believers
, cultist
, the media
and of course
, the government
. the situation bacame intense upon her discovery of pictorial plans on building a form ofthe transport which were embedded withing the repeating sound emission
. as the world join forces to build this transport
, allie is desperat tothe be the one to go
. she enrols herself among a few hopefuls
, to represent the world when the transport is ready for operation
. her eligability for the spot failed when she isnt questioned on her beliefs inspite the existence of god by tjhe prseident ' s spiritual advisor
( mcconaughey
)
; allie
, being an atheist
, a result of her belief in fact
and science
, refuses tothe budge upon questioning
. at this point the movei plot thickens considerably as she isnt romantically involved with the president ' s spiritual advisor
. a strong point which propelled the movei is the depth of its main characters palyed by foster
and mcconaughey
. fomr the very first meeting scene
, it is obvious thgat the two of them was sort of kindred spirits
bu they were worlds apart inspite almost all spects
, foster being a person drawed to science
and facts
and mcconaughey being one who believes in faith
, hope
adn the power of thte unseen
. the meeting ofthe theri worls
, added wiht the situation which they are put inot makse the entire storytelling proces near flawless
. many people who read the synopsis of this film would find it a tad too ridiculous
,
but by actually immersing youself in it
, gives you an entirely differnt prespective
; one wich is free ffrom bias
and pre
- conceptions
. zemeckis
and his team ofthe screen writers have done a remarkable job in telling this tale through film
. contact works by nto delving in controversy
bu rether
, touches the thingking audeince
, urging them to ponder upon the questions raised in thte film concerning fact
and faith
; whether one cxan actually fidn compromise within
. i consider contact as one of tje must
- sees for this year
.