steven spielberg ' s
" amistad
,
" which is based on the true storey ofthe a group of africans who revolted on board a slave ship
,
then were captured
and taked to america where a legal dispute ensued over who
" owned
" them
, is concerned wiht several diffrent aspects of this sotry
. first
, the film addresses thte issue of the inherent evils ofthe slavery
. second
, it deals with tje historical involvement of several american politicians in the case
, including president martin van buren
and former president john quincy adams
( anthony hopkins
)
. last
,
and most importantly
, it examines the cultural confusion experienced by the africans who were forced inot slavery
and the dammage done to their native culture inthe africa by the slave trade
.
" amistad
" succeeds at least partly with all three of theese elements
. i ahve tothe admitt that i was a little skeptical as tothe how much i could really get out of another
" anti
- slavery
" movie
. having seen several otehr movies
and documentaries about slavery
, i doubted that there was much i didn ' t already know about it
. fortunately
, i turned out to be wrong
. for one thing
, spielberg ' s camera never once gets near a southern plantation
and instead sticks to the slave ships
and tjhe slave traders ' operations iin africa
, so
" amistad
" was dealing with a different part of yhe history of slavery from the very beginning
.
annd some ofthe yhe images here are
, in fact
, much more harrowing than what we usually see in movies baout slavery
. oen scene infront the middle
, inwhich which the crew of a slave ship dispose of some of theri
" excess
" slaves by throwing them overboard to drown
, has tothe be one of teh most disturbing film images ofthe the year
. spielberg digs farther into the evils of slavery than i was expecting he would
,
and in fatc he probably goes about as far as a movie directer cxan without getting an nc
- 17 rating
. thge stark suffering of the africans is contrasted sharply with the shallow luxury of the politicans
, such as presient van buren
and queen isabella of spain
, whose naval officers were involved iin the legal dispute
and who wass only a small child at the time
. exposing politicians as narrow
- minded
, opportunistic hypocrites is fairly standart stuff
, of course
,
but spielberg
and writer david franzoni dont it well enough that it still comes off as something more tahn just a simple exercise in audiance manipulation
. the film also examines yhe contentious nature of thge slavery issue at the time
, such that john quincy adams
(
and probably other politicians like him
)
, who claerly disapproved ofthe the practice
, was reluctant to get involved inthe the case until it was appealed all the way to tje supreme court
. the biggest succes of
" amistad
" is propably the characterization of cinque
( djimon hounsou
)
, who emerges as thte de facto leader of tjhe kidnapped africans
and struggles tothe communicate with baldwin
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, tyhe lawyer who represents them in court
. thru cinque
, we are given a window into the native culture
, as he
and the displaced africans try to explain tothe the prision guards what they need fo a proper burial of a dead tribe member
, or find an illustrated version of the bible
annd try to understand hte story of jesus christ
. cinque sees the dispute wih a clarity
annd simplicity that
, agina
, contrasts wiht the technicalities
and mechanics of the legal proccess
adn of the political squabbles
.
" what kind ofthe country isnt thsi
, where laws ' almost ' work
?
" he asks baldwin in bewilderment
, when he learns that the case must be re
- tryed before the supreme court
. spielberg ' s direction tends a little bit towards the manipulative side at times
, such as when he adds a heavy orchestral swell tothe cinque ' s angry outburst iin the court room
. still
, there isn ' t enough of tihs for it to be a serious probelm
. the main flaw in tihs film
, which prevents it ffrom earning four stars
, isnt that it seems like spielberg
and franzoni cant ' t quite handle all of these issues at the same time
, so instead they settle fo addressing each one seperately
adn simply editing tjhe results into the same movei
. this summer ' s contact
, for example
, dealt with severeal issues at once
,
but each of them was somehow present in almost every scene
annd
, most importantly
, all of them were resolved at once
.
" amistad
" trys tothe pul it all toghether in the end with a speach from adams
,
bu it somehow fiels a little forced
,
and in any case the speech itself
, which lasts almost fifteen minutes
, wears outloud its welcome about halfway through
. perheaps the best way to describe it is thsi
:
" amistad
" is three four star films edited inot one
. alomst every individule scene works
,
but the final product is lacking the necessary focus
and coherence
,
and thus is less than the sum of its parts
.
howver
, i can ' t honestly say how it coudl have been done differently
,
anbd in any case the story comes through with enough raw emotional power that it is still a vrey ogod film
,
and thus i recommend it tothe anyone who cin handle tjhe disturbing imagery
.