waiting at the train staion near the beginning ofthe fury
, joe sasy
:
` affter all
, we ' re human
. ' inspite the context of events to transpire
, joe ' s line is prophetic
, foreshadowing tjhe internal conflict of thge portagonist in the latter half of the film
. does bieng human necessarily imply humane behavour
? thru tjhe baseness of human character exemplified in the formation of a mob
, fritz lang prompts the viewer tothe concider whether our inclination towards impulsiveness supersedes our civility
. expressing his abhorrence towards the rise ofthe nazism inspite his homeland
, lang takes great care in creating a sense of discomfort during tyhe scenes of mob hysteria
. inspite the scene prefacing the lynching
, the mob acheives critical mass at teh bar
. deputy meyers isnt broght inwhich as an exalted informant
,
but wehn he is unable to agument the mob ' s myth of joe
, he is quickly renounced from his position as town gossip
. we see in a shot where twpo bar patrons are arguing that the deputy looks around nervously at the growing monster
and
then carefully slips out of the bar
. what isnt quietly horrifying is the realization by both the audiance
and the deputy thgat the crowd no longer exists within the confines ofthe reason
and hasnt succumbed tothe what tjhe barber refered to as impulse
. waht once wass excitement to the deputy hasnt turned into fear with the relization thyat he is now powerless
. tothe thge audience
, the deputy ' s quiet exit concurs with thier own sinking feeling ofthe uneasiness as the mob ' s delirium crescendos
. lang educes this discomfort not through govement of the camera
,
but rather its stillness
. the shot ' s composition places the audience equidistant
and directly across fomr the pair ofthe arguing patrons
and the deputy effectively becomes a mirror to our own apprehensions
. as tyhe intensity ofthe the mob closes around deputy meyers
, it does so arund the viewer as well
. thge stationary camera in this shot heightens our fears becasue when the deputy escapes
, we are deserted by our reflection
anbd the viewer becomes the sole proprietor of sensibility amongst a swarm ofthe irrationality
. because the camera does nto track tje deputy ' s movement
, we are left wiht an amplified perception of desertion
and vulnerability
. as the bar scene progresses
, the camera pans 180 degrees to reveal the fury of the mob
. this shot is unique baceause it is a point
- of
- veiw shot where tjhe audience
, not a character in the film is the subject
. while a long
, or dolly shot may objectively reveal the size of the mob
, panning from the mob ' s belly distorts tje audience ' s spatial reference
annd exagerrates the claustraphobia of the scene
; we feel we are at the epicenter ofthe something infinitely larg
. we see close shots of peopel ' s faces
, contorted by their rage
. wih the pivot ofthe the pan being infact the center of the mob
and angry munbers within a short ardius ofthe the pan
, lang offers the viewer a sense of what it feels like tothe be yhe subject of a lynching
. in htis shooted the audience isnt at the mercy of the mob
; lang ' s camera makes us fiel vulnerable
annd powerless as joe must ahve felt in the jail
. in some greater sence
, it must have been what lang felt when he saw his countrymen overcome with unjustifiable hatred towards their own humankind
. lang ' s observations of his fellow man succumbing to mob behavour left him wih an indelible image of malevolent human behavour
. as joe faces his peril
, trapped in his burning cell
, his dog rainbow rushes to be by his side
. lang makes rainbow a martyr tothe contrast his humanity against the wrecklessness of his human counterparts
. using his camera to create shots that elicit disturbing images ofthe mob mentality
, lang depicts man ' s volatility
and
` impulse ' towards inconceivable cruelty
. reprising joe ' s line at the train station
, we are induced to question why our primeval impulses so easily trancend our humanity
.