i had a chance to see a sneak preview of city slickers ii on campus last night
. i went in with the expectation ofthe a film with hte simmilar flavor which made the original such a succes
: personal groth
and insightful humor baout life
. i came away somewhat disappointed inwhich this regard
, getting some of thge latter
and nto much of the former
. the basic plot revolves arund billy crystal
, who plays mitch robbins
, turning forty
. he ' s nowe become the station manager of the radiu station in whcih he worked in the original
. he ' s given a job at thte radio station to his best friend
, played by daniel stern
, out of sympathy while stern ' s character works through his divorce
. his loser younger brother
( john lovitz
) comes to mitch ' s house to bum a monye
and place tothe live
, all while mitch
and his wief try to celeberate his birthday
. during yhe celebration
, mitch discovers what appears to be a treasure map in curly ' s
( tje cattle drive leader in tghe original palyed by jack palance
) old hat
. aftter a business trip tothe las vegas
, crystal
, stern
,
anbd lovitz stay a few extra dyas tothe go off in searh of the treasure
. on tjhe way
, they run into curly ' s twin brother
, duke
, played by
( you know who
) jack palance
. first of all
, tjhe cinematography was beautifully done
, especially the outdoor scenes in the desert
. the scenes are such thgat i woudl like to see some ofthe thsoe sights filmed mysef
. there is some character development during the film
. hte actors remane true to their characters
and play them well
, wihtout overplaying yhe jokes
. the movei is a good basic adventure
, wih anough plot twists tothe provide for an ending tht is difficult to predict
. the movie is paced well
,
but with a couple slow spots in tghe middle
and towards teh end
. humor
- wise
, the film has a good number ofthe jokes whihc mantained my interst throughout the film
. there are memorable moments like when stern is bitten by a snake
,
but there are fewer jokes to laff at in yhe sequal
( suprize
, suprize for a sequel
, right
?
)
.
however
, the slight bitter aftertaste i have with this film has to do mainly with the film ' s manipulation of the audience
. the film tries to pull your heart
- strings too much regarding how close the characters are to each other
, like when mitch hadnt desided to suck the snake marrow out ofthe his best friend ' s butt
. this is done agian when tghe gang meets up witht soem members of the cattle drive group ffrom the originnal
. there were also some parts hwihc appeared unrealistic
, liek whether the stampede owudl strat in the way it did or why they didn ' t worry more baout water hwile tromping around tjhe desert
. some strenous stretches of teh imagination are required here
. since the objective of the gang is to find gold
and get rich
( unlike finding themselves inwhich middle age like iin the original
)
, i also found it harder to empathize wiht the characters during their journey
. overall
, i ' d say that tjhe film is an entertaining
and humorous adventure with some story
- line deficiencies making it less worthy than the original
. it may be worth the full price of admission
,
but a matinee owudl be a better bargain
.