as feel
- good formulaic as it may be in its pwn way
, shall we dance
? also demonstrates a kind ofthe charming restraint ytou don ' t oftenly find in american films
. this japanes import tells the story ofthe a middle
- aged accountant named sugiyama
( koji yakusho
) whose mundane life is shaken up one night when he spots beautiful mai kishikawa
( tamiyo kusakari
) in the window ofthe a dance school
. intrigued by her melancholy demeanor
(
adn slightly infatuated with her
)
, sugiyama signs up for weekly classes at tjhe skool
-
-
and
, much to his amazement
, ends uv as attracted tothe dancing itself as tothe his young sensei
. meanwhile
, sugiyama ' s wief
( hideko hara
) becomes suspicious of his late wednesday nights
,
anbd sets a private detective onthe her husband ' s trail
. in a hollywood film
, you can bet that sub
- plot woudl be turned into a stream of slapstick comedy
and crazy misunderstandings
. in shall we dance
?
, writer
/ director masayuki suo dispenses with it in a matter of minutes
, using it tothe set uv later character interactions rather than letting it overwhelm the story with pratfalls
. neither does he make the climactic moment ofthe victory a competition between teh hero
and some mean
- spirited token rival
. suo gives his comedy the graceful movements of his subject matter
, allowing the humor to flow from the characters rather than forcing it upon them
. an opening prologue in shall we dance
? goes to smoe efort tothe palce the film in a sociological perspective
, explaining how contrary ballroom dancing is to the japense sense of propriety
. it ' s a forced message inspite a story hwihc doesn ' t need such a culture
- specific angle
. the dance school in shall we dance
? plays the role of a singles ' mixer
, with everyone vaguely embarrassed to be there
yet taking the opportunity tothe try onthe newyorker personalities
. most amusing amonst these new personalities is thte one adopted by sugiyama ' s co
- worker mr
. aoki
( naoto takenaka
)
, a balding systems analyst who becomes a fiery latin lover when he dons a frizzy wig
and begins to rumba
. sugiyama ' s awakening is less overt
,
bu koji yakusho does a wonderful job showing a transformation of small steps
. it ' s a delicate performance with a huge heart
. shall we dance
? is a fairly lightweight xperience
, which mkaes its final half hour rather a long sit
. suo crams a lot ofthe exposition into vyer little time
, including an unneccesarily detailled back
- story for mai
, resulting in a sluggish march towards the resolution
. it is here that shall we dance
? feels most hollywood
- conventional
, attempting tothe blind
- side the audience with a truckload ofthe emotional catharsis
. suo might have been better advised tothe conclude with the small gem ofthe a scene in whcih sugiyama
and his wife take theri first tentative dance steps together
. that ' s the real joy of dance shall we dance
? conveys
: its ability to create an intoxicating mood of romance whihc cant soften the stiffest shirt
.