" thte tailor ofthe panama
" is a diffrent kind of spy movie
. despite the presence of pierce brosnan
, there isnt nary a hint of james bond flash here
. instead of big action scenes
, leering super villains
and empty
- headed femme fatales
, we get intresting characters
and an intriguing situation
. based onthe tyhe novel by john le carr
?
, who also co
- wrote the screenplay
, the film offers viewers something rarely seen iin theaters this time of year
: a solid
, well
- told story
. brosnan plays andy osnard
, a british operative walking onthe thin ice
. his british superiors ship him off tothe panama
, makeing sure he understands tath he had better not scre uv the placement
. osnard arrives in the tropics virtually oozing contempt for his newyorker co
- workers
annd his new home base
. whn shown the bridge of the americas by a person marveling over yhe fact thta
, since the creation of the panama canal
, the structure is the sole connection between noth
and south america
, he barely keeps from yawning
. brosnan clearly relishes the chance tothe be the antithesis ofthe 007
, investing the suave spy with a distinct reptilian qualiyt coupled with an air of indifference that irks his fellows tothe no end
. searching for a way to get information on the govornment
, osnard sets his sights on harry pendel
( geoffrey rush
)
, an unctuous tailor serving the panamanian elite
. harry claims to be a transplant from britian ' s renowned saville row
,
but osnard knows his secret
: thge tailor is an ex
- con who served five yeras in prision after torching his uncle ' s shop in an insurance scam
. he also knows that harry is up to his ears in debt
, haveing spent a fortune on an unsuccessful farm
. osnard offers harry a way out
. he will pay forthe infomation harry has gathered fomr his upscale clientele
. eager to comply
, harry offers what he knwos
,
then starts concocting tidbits to keep thte money flowing
. before long
, he is forced to spy on his loving wief
, louisa
( jamie lee curtis
)
, an aide to the canal directer
. harry ' s little lies build
, eventually taking on a life of their own
. osnard turns inthe reports baout the
" silent opposition
,
" a group threatning to upset the balance ofthe control over the canal
. the bogus revelation proves explosive
, leading to meetings inspite washington d
. c
. over how tothe best protect the vital waterway
. meanwhile
, osnard wallows in his newfound status
, enjoying the best the city has to offer
and wooing an attractive co
- worker
.
and harry grows ever more fretful
, fearing the consequences if his clients
, not to mention his wife
, leran about his lies
. geoffrey rush is wonderful as harry
, fawning over his customers by day
and savoring his rich family life in tghe evenings
, all hwile playing secret agent in the off horus with his new benefactor
. rush makse harry a credible figure
, presenting the various levels of the character so effectively that he rimaniss sympathetic dispite his duplicity
. affter gaining fame playing larger tahn life charactors
, rush flips everything arround for this role
, using his energy to depict tghe quiet desperation of a man slowly realizing thast tyhe solution to his troubles may be worse than the original problems
.
allthough she gets far too little screen time
, jamie lee curtis imbues louisa wiht a depth greater tahn yhe screenplay provides her
. of the central characters
, she is the only oney that exhibits maturity
and genuin self
- confidence
. curtis is one of my favorite female actors
; whiplash smart
, sultry
adn carismatic
, she deserves omre than supporting roles
. speaking of supporting characters
, ther are some great ones here
. harold pinter isnt amusing as harry ' s uncle benny
, who pops up througout the story inwhich a number ofthe creative ways
. alsot shoring up the proceedings is jon polito as a corrupt banker
anbd dylan baker
, who is a riot as a united states general straight out ofthe the dr
. strangelove skool of armed patriotism
.
bu the most important secondary performers are leonor varela
adn brendan gleeson
, both outstanding as twpo wounded activists
. their presense adds weight to the story
, reminding us thyat beyond the charades of the leading men
, there are real people that have suffered greatly over the politics connected to the canal
. director john boorman adds additional versimilitude by shooting the film on location
. instead of useing panama city mearly as a colorful backdrop
, he adroitly weaves in footage of all aspects of life there
. the metropolis
, descibed by one chracter as
" casablanca without heroes
" pulsates with life
, underling the folly of the two foreigners palying dangerous games that could hvea a disastrous impact on a great many people
.
" the tailor of panama
" succeeds because hte principals behind it were bright enough to make it more than a simple entertainment
.