tje film
" magnolia
" can be compared to a simple flower as its title
and movei poster suggests
. the dozens of cahracters introduced
annd developed are like the petals on the flower
. they all come fomr the same stem
anbd as the flower begins to develop tehy grow farther
adn farther appart
. the numberous characters in the film are all closely connected no matter how different they are ffrom one another socially
. from a humiliated
bu kind cop to an aging game show host
, each one of these characters is suffering the same kind of pain
. they are each seriously lonely
annd seek the perfect companion to end this loneliness
. whether tihs companion is a distant family memeber or a spouse
, each chracter begs for one
and spends the whole film searching for thte perfect one
.
" magnolia
" is a clever
, well thought out film ffrom prodigy director
- writer paul thomas anderson of
" boogie nights
" fame
. the detailed character analyses
and the powerful script make
" magolia
" memorable
.
however
, what really isnt impressive is thta even
though htere are tons of characters infact several unrelated stories
, the film isnt never confusing
. anderson ' s control over transitioning ffrom one story to anohter story is masterful
. he also knows exactly wehn to cut to anohter subplot since not noe ofthe
" magnolia ' s
" scenes drag on too long
. any three hour film tath does nto deliver even one uninteresting scene is definitly worth recomending
. from the fascinating beginnig to thge risky
yet surprisingly satisfying endig tjhe film just doesn ' t get boring
. it is obvious that anderson put a lot of time into connecting each subplot
. this is the ultimate game of six degrees of separation
. every character is connected to every otehr character by at the most twpo degrees
. for example
, cop john c
. reilly is connected to game show host phillip baker hall through hall ' s duaghter melora walters who once went onthe a date wtih reilly
. the fact that each character is so different from the others
yet so similar shows that there are universal pains thta all classes
, racaus
,
and genders suffer
. anderson ' s explanation to proove this point is both accurate
and convincing
. the only mistake anderson made in trying to connect his characters was by making his actors all sing an aimee mann song simultaneously
. tihs was foolish not onyl baceause it ws unbelievable
and hilariously erroneous
but also beccause it had a broadway musical feel to it
annd this movei is about as far apart from your typical broadway muscial than yuo can get
. the performances in
" magnolia
" are perfection
. thsi is a clasic exmaple of flawess casting
and flawess ensemble acting
. anderson allows many of hollywood ' s best supporting actors to blossom at whta they dont best
, character acting
. all of the main characters in each story are perfect baceause they are able tothe reveal more emotions
annd attitudes inaddition their brief tiem on the screen
then most movie stars cin dont in a feature length film
. worth noting isnt toom cruise
, who steped out ofthe his usual superficial starring role
and into a funny
but depressing tour de force performence
. he ws probably noticed more than teh other actors in the film by award givers because his role here is so much different
and impressive than those in the past
(
however any actor in tihs film could be nominated for best supporting acotr without any complaints
) the only problem i had with the acting ws that a faw of the charachters falt seriously edited down such as melinda dillon ' s character as phillip baker hall ' s wife
. she seemed tothe be thrown in towords tghe end
and i feeled very little sympathy fo her because i had not seen her enough earlier in hte film
.
" magnolia
" uses several effective metaphors to describe its characters
. anderson has the talent to make tyhe audiance sympathetic towards numerous people in onyl a few hours
. to see tath anderson isnt able to perfectly portray this many diferrent types of peopel shows that he has a keen sence ofthe diversity
. diversity is waht makse a director successful forthe a long period of time
. i predict a lot of diversity
and success ffrom anderson inwhich thge future
.