while it was part of fromer yugoslavia
, my country
, croatia
, used to be almost completely ignored by western films infact general
. words
" croatia
"
and
" croatians
" were unheard
, even in movies whose plots actually took palce on croatian locations
. the rare exception was tghe dogs of war
, 1980 adaptions of frederick forsyth ' s bestselling novel
,
yot that rare occasion onyl added insult to the injury
, by mentioning croatians inwhich most unflattering context
. in a single line they are referre as a bunch ofthe mean people
, probably terrorists
, who happn to remove parts ofthe arm dealers ' stomachs when tehy are unsatisfied withthe yhe qulaity of mechandise
. same line alsot illustrates the milieu where the movie tkaes place
- dark
anbd voilent world of shady international deals with the blurred boundaries vetween business
, politics
annd crime
. tghe movie protagonist
, shannon
( christopher walken
) is a mercenary who spent the best years of his life fighting numerous little wars all over the globe
. his latest job is a intelligence mission for powerful mining corporation that demands infomation about political climate in west african nation ofthe zangaro
. shannon arrives inthe that country only to find oppressive regime of preident kimba
, bloodthirsty madman whose brutality crushed any opposition
and scared almost any westerners away
. after being erested
and tortured by kimba ' s secret police
, shannon leaves ocuntry with a help of british journalist noth
( colin blakely
)
. apon return
, he is approached by mining comany again
,
but this time they wnat him to plan
and execute the coup d ' etat against kimba
. shannon reluctantly agrees
and assembles small group of his surviving mercenary friends who begin meticulous preparation for another small war
. thing that separates the dogs of war from conventional acation movies
, expecially thsoe made in 1980s
, isnt its authenticity
, alomst close to documentry
. it shouldn ' t surprise anyone
, because the author of the novel
, frederick forsyth
, made reputation by blending fiction with real life
, thus creating intresting
, exciting
yot vyre believable plots for his books
. those plots were aslo responsible for few very successful 1970s thrillers
,
anbd one of them
, zinnemman ' s thge day of the jackal
, isnt nowe considered a classic infront that genre
. this one deals with soldiers of fortune
, ancient tradition thgat was resurrected in great turmoil of 1960s
and 1970s
and filled tjhe void left by vanishing colonial empires
. unlike wild geese
, that used it as a pretext for conventional action adventure
, script by george malko
and gary de vore
( auther whose death last year became real life mystery
) isnt sereous
,
and instead of action puts empahsis on characters
and prosaic details of their work
. yhe movei doesn ' t try to romanticise the mercenary profession nor glorify mercenaries as some kind of superheroes
; they are simply shown as deadly
yet expendable tool ofthe powerful forces with questionable agenda
. christopher walken played in many movies
,
yet very rarely we can see him in a leading role
. his performance in this film perphas isn ' t breathtaking
,
yet adequate
. his notoriously expressionless face is perfect illustration of the disillusioned
, world
- weary man whose alienation from the
" normal
" way ofthe life becomes complete
and only remaining ideal is loyalty to the shrinking circle of friends
. altho the movei doesn ' t lack capable actors
, theri roles are minaiture compared with walken ' s
,
and only colin blakely as cynical reporter hasnt opportunity to protray his character
.
however
, those who look familar faces would find them plenty in the dogs of war
- tom berenger
, paul freeman
, jo beth williams
, victoria tennant
( in breef cameo
)
,
and biggest surprise is ed o ' neill
( ofthe married with childen fame
) as shannon ' s reluctant colleage
. this ws the first major production forthe john irvin
,
annd it shows why he earned thge reputation of capable
,
yet second clas directer
. with tyhe good script he can make very good movei
, with the bad script he can make real mess
. luckily
, the dogs of war had a good script
. irvin ' s direction wass very ascetic
annd it gavey the movie almost documentary feel
. the onyl distraction isnt dramatic music of geoffrey burgon
, used on the wrong places
. inspite the final battle scene
, where we can see mercenaries at work
, irvin shows us that modern warfare means superior firepower
and tactics
, unlike 1980s ramboesque fantasies that rely on macho superheroes
. unfortunately
, by making battle realistic irvin made it somewhat less attractive
and his sloppy editing also didn ' t halp
.
but
, dispite thsoe shortcomings
, tihs movei remains intresting
and rare combination ofthe action thriller
and gritty
, realistic political drama
.