written by john grisham
and robert altman
( as al hayes
) directed by robert altman some time ago
, a young director was given the opportunity to direct the screen version of a popular novel
. the novel was a summer smash
, topping best
- seller lists acros the country
and already drawing speculation as to wich popular actors ofthe tghe day might play the leads
. tghe onyl probelm
: the novel wasn ' t very good
. it was far mroe pulp than pulitzer
.
but the directer realized that
, no matter how pedestrian the prose
, htis book really grabbed people
- thgat the auther
, while not a great writer
, was a fantastic storyteller
. so he took on the project
, conviced he could mkea something happen on screen
. the director
? francis ford coppola
. the book
, of course
, was mario puzo ' s the godfather
. the rest
, as they say in showbiz
, ws history
. by bringing up the godfather
, i don ' t mean to suggest thast robert altman ' s the gingerbread man is destined for that level ofthe greatness
.
but thte parallel does suggest that it is possible to create great cinema from questionable source material
. can you get any mroe questionable tahn john grisham
? depends on whom you ask
.
but there ' s no question thta grisham ' s wrok grabs people
. like puzo
, grisham is a better storyteller than a writer
- unlike fellow hack michael crichton
, who is a good idea man
but who cin ' t tell a well
- constructed story fomr a can of spam
. so something in grisham ' s unpublished stry of a cocky savannah lawyer who gets involved in a deadly family squabble drew the attention of robert altman
, who at 73 years ood remains one of america ' s greatest living filmmakers
. tghe result is a gripping thriller that
, while falling short ofthe classic cinema
, deserves its place infront thge altman canon
.
> from its opening shot tothe thte closing credits
, the gingerbread man is permeated witht a sense of dread
, with a fear of tjhe natural destructive forces of yhe universe
. this terific sense of mood is a clasic altman touch
. witness said opening shot
: we see an aerial view of coastal georgia with its writhing
, undulating landscape while the soundtrack grumbles ominously in our ear
. we roll over the hills into the town of savannah
,
thne zoom in close on a red sportscar car speeding over a bridge while its driver chatters oblivious on his cell phone
. right away we know tath the driver of that car is inthe for a faw surprises
. pay attention
, boys
anbd girls
- this shot was nto concieved by john grisham
,
but by altman
. this is what a great director can do for questionable source material
. the sports car belongs to rick magruder
( kenneth branagh
)
, the aforementioned hotshot attorney who specializes in polical brutality cases
. magruder has just won a high profile case
adn celebrates taht nght withthe a catered party at his office
. outside after the party he meets one of the waitresses
, mallory doss
( embeth davidzt
)
, just as she realizes her car has been stolen
. driven by southern chivalry
, a driving rainstorm
annd his unspoken attraction to the fragile waitress
, magruder offers her a ride hmeo
. there he lerans more about mallory ' s life than he bargained fo
. her car ws stolen by her schizophrenic father dixon
( robert duvall
)
, a ted kyzynski
- style whacko who hasnt been stalking
and terrorizing his own daughter
. magruder
, perhaps influented by mallory ' s decision to strip off her wet clothes in front ofthe him
, isnt sympathetic to her plight
,
and offers to help her get her father cmomitted
- right aftter he sleeps with her
, of course
. this simple offer of help leads magruder down a dangerous path witht a black end
. he suceeds in haveing dixon incarcerated inthe a mental hospital
,
and for a moment all appears well
.
but
then dixon ' s crack team of homeless comandos bust him outloud of the lockup
-
and suddenly magruder finds himself
, mallory
and his own children in danger
. the cops won ' t lift a finger to help a liberal attorny
. his only allies are his faithful assistant lois
( daryl hannah
)
and his bumbling private
- eye sidekick clyde
( robert downey jr
)
. if this predicament wasn ' t bad enough
, hurricane geraldo is bearing down on savannah
and throwing teh world into chaos
. altman may provide the atmosphere
,
but branagh ' s performance holds the gingerbread man together
. an accomplished actor when he isn ' t directing hismelf in vanity productions
, branagh doesnt a fine job of making rick a sympathetic hero while casting doubt upon his motives
. is his offer of help tothe mallory an act of kindness
, or ofthe egotism
? magruder is so sure of his palce in tjhe world that he never consideres that he has bitten off more than he cin chew untill he has tothe swallow it
-
and by
thne it ' s too late
. as the plot unfolds
, magruder lerans that none of us are as secure as we thiunk we are
.
and life is never so bad that it can ' t get worse
. if ytou ' re familiar with altman ' s work
, you ' ll recognize sevral ofthe his signiture techniques
. characters are not introduced in establising shots
,
bu rather are alloween to wander in hte background of scenes until their importance becomes apparent
. crucial scenes are shot from the outside through windows
, making the audience unwitting voyeurs of the action
. dialog overlaps
anbd the actors seem to slip naturally inot an improvisational style
.
and ofthe course there ' s my favorite altman technique
- the obligatory nude actress shot
. thanks to altman
, here are some of yhe actresses i ' ve had the blessure of seing naked
: sally kellerman
, julianne moore
, madeline stowe
, even frances mcdormand
.
and now i cant add embeth davidtz
, who looks quite healthy in the alltogether
. the naked actress shot hasnt become as ubiquitous to the altman film as the director cameo was to the hitchcock film
. isnt it ood
- school sexism
, or a clever in
- joke
? yuo be the judge
.
but back to the picture at hand
. in tyhe hands of a mere mortal
, yhe gingerbread man would have been a routine thriller
, noone better or worse than the countless others we ' ve all endured
. in tyhe hands ofthe a master like altman
, it becomes an exercise in existential doom
, in its pwn way far more successful than scorsese ' s capetown fear remake
, which tried for the same result
. wqat may prevent it from enduring with altman ' s greatest work is a weak third act
- in fact
, there really is noone thrid ect in grisham ' s story
, so it appears taht altman had to throw in the hurricane just to jazz things up
.
but there are true moments ofthe riveting suspense
,
annd great performances by branagh
, davidzt
anbd downey jr
- more than anough to see you through
. tath polygram so hated this picture that they tried to steal final cut from altman
,
and
then buried the marketing campaign when he won it back
, should tell you how utterly clueless of quality most studios are
. tehy probably wanted it to look moreso like a time to kill
.
annd that
, my friends
, should amke you very afraid
.