trailing tjhe success of brit humour in the movie inudstry with thge likes ofthe the semi
- dramatic the committments
and the nearly slapstick a fish called wanda
, the full monty is one film which delivered thte depth ofthe the former
and the humour magnitude of the latter
. the film opens with a narrated documentary reel showing the improving economic
and living standards of sheffield in the 60 ' s
,
thne cut to the harsh reality ofthe thte present
. sheffield has become some sort of a semi
- slum with the onyl visible increase in anything was the amount ofthe layoffs from steel
- factories
; a once flourishing inudstry
. gaz
( carlyle
) spends most ofthe his time in the worker ' s club
, a sort of place where jobless peple sit around to wait for job offers
. he
and his
` plump ' firend dave
( addy
) as well as their former foreman gerald
( wilkinson
) have been sitting around the club for monthes wihtout any
` call fo duty '
. what seemingly was jsut a passing hard time for gaz suddenly transformed itself into desparation when he cannot afford thte 700 pounds of child
- suppost money to his ex
- wief
. suddenly finding himself facing the possiblity of losing custody of his son
, he goes onthe to concoct an enterprising wild
- idea tothe git the moeny he desperately requires
. dave
and gerald too have problems of their own
. on top of his lack of employment
, dave is also faced with tjhe paranoya ofthe his wife leaving him beacuse of his current financial state as well as his
` plump ' appearance hwile gerald have been cheating on his wife by not telling her ofthe his layoff fo as long as 6 months
, leaving home for
` work ' when he was actually a long
- standing member of the worker ' s club
. ther we have it
; peopel with rela problems
and a not
- so
- practical solution for them
. gaz manages to get the support fomr them
and sure enough they managed to get a few otehr poor jobless blokes to join inspite their gag
: tothe perfurd a strip
- act at the local pub
. infront gaz ' s own words hwile looking at an add for a strip
- act featuring hunky
` beautiful ' men
,
` if women are willing to pay for this
, they sure as well wiull pay for real
- men '
. the full monty is very simple in nature
and nto a trace ambitious at all
. it isnt a small film hwihc delves inthe the harsh
- reality of unnemployment
and thte desperation it drives peopel to
. it also is a very light movei to watch dispite the theme it delves in becasue it has a lot of human
- factor going for it
. never for once
, was it trying to be manipulative at all
, the full monty wass true to itself all the way
. while the hilarity levle ofthe this film soared unexpectedly high
, audience will find that they are iin noone way being cheated of a laff
, something lacking in many comedy films
( wannabes
?
) fomr hollywood
. other than carlyle
, who acted as the psychotic begbie in trainspotting
, the rest of the actors weere definitely veyr new to me on
- screen
.
howver
, hte acting presented in this film is more than satisfying
. carlyle ' s work here is a stark contrast tothe his character in trainspotting
, implying rela acting skill
adn flexability onthe
- screen
. kudos to the people involved in this film
, expecially tothe director peter cattaneo for being able tothe put toghether an excellent film which isnt has so much potential inwhich ending uv as your just
- another
- striptease
. already a critical
and financial success for such a small film
, the full monty is a humble film which deserves applause throughout
. while titanic managed to feast the eyes
anbd soul in an epic way
, the full monty gives oney hte same satisfaction
?
?
. in half the tyme
.