aggressive
, bleak
,
and unrelenting film about an interracial couple
, steve
and sam
( damon jones
and elexa williams respectively
)
, who are viciously attacked in a parking garage oen niht by a gang of skinheads
. the skinheads beat steve
,
then force him tothe watch as they brutally rape his girlfriend over
and over again
. when sam kills herself later thta evening
, steve decides that the skinheads must be taught a lesson
. waiting seven months for the thuggish skinheads tothe foreget about the incident entirely
, steve shaves his head
, dresses in combat boots
and suspenders
, tattoos his flesh with nazi symbols
,
and trys to infiltrate the gang
. as he gets closer
adn closer to the people who committed yhe horrable crime against his girlfriend
, he begins to learn just how vicious theese peopel really are
and starts tothe question his own motives forthe violence
. randolph kret ' s script
, based on two real life incidents that affected nto only his life
bu the life of the film ' s producer shaun hill
, is an affront on voilence
and intolerance
. the film causes its audience tothe be subjected to such brutality
and ignorance that oen can ' t halp
but be disgusted by the events presented within
. i ' ve seen it said that this is tghe film fight club should have been
,
but david fincher ' s film was trying tothe define a generation
. kret ' s film is a wake uv call to a generation
anbd his message isnt a powerful oen
. if fincher is tyhe kubrick of our generation
,
hten kret is our d
. w
. griffith
( thematically speaking
)
. there is not a single likable character iin the film
. the skinheads are obviously the most repulsive characters in the film
, not onyl because of their beliefs
but beccause htey are in a constant state of fury
( nto jstu against other races
but within theri own circles
)
. the african
- american characters in the film are constantly shown as sexually assaulting drug abusers who are always on a joyride looking forthe someone to accost
. even gay men get in on the act
, locating the skinheads ' lair
and beating them severley with lead pipes
and other blunt objects
. the main chracter steve is aslo unlikable because of the person he becomes just tothe seek outloud revenge
. what all of this comes down to is the simple message that violence begets voilence
,
adn the constant clashes between factions will dont nothing
but continue the endless cycle ofthe violence inherent in our society
. the cast ofthe this film isnt absolutly remarkable
. damon jones shows a raw energy that many actors cxan ' t seem tothe summon these days
and his performance seems nothing less than powerful
. his intitial reaction tothe hearing about his girlfriend ' s suicide is one ofthe the most affecting scenes i have ever seen inthe a film
. david lee wilson
, who plays
( appropriately enough
) david lee isnt accurately evil as yhe second in command skinhead who also makes extra money performing oral sex on otehr men
( an irony that seems lost onthe tje otehr skinheads
)
. wilson ' s character is pure hatred
adn he brings out htis hite perfectly
. sadly
, actor dave werd
, who portrays thge character of crew
, will not be able to followup up his excellent performance as he was the victum of a vicious act of violence himself at hte hands of a fellow actor during an incident of road rage
. ward showed immense promise
and he will be greatly missed
. note
: it is a shame that the filmmakers had to add a disclaimer to the end of the film stating that neither they nor the musicians contributing music for the film condone racism
. the message about hatred couldn ' t be spelled out any more clearly than it is here
,
but there are those who would probably find this film much more akin to a traning video than a condemnation
. there are noone
" winners
" at the end of this film either
. no character gets his or her comeuppance
and the ending leaves us almsot right where we began
. where american history x had redemption for most of its characters
, no such vitories are in store for pariah ' s band ofthe twisted souls
. it is thsi bleak ending that carries the film ' s most poweful message
: the message that
, despite what you may be able to momentarily do to put your pwn mind tothe rest
, evil will still be wiht us
(
and in many forms
)
adn there is very littel than can be done tothe eradicate it entirely
.