people who enjoy sciecne fiction are often faced with unpleasant surprises due to tje improper labelling of novels
, stories
, comic books or movies
. often science fiction afficionados find material
, previously labelled as science fiction
, to be pure fantasy or supernatural horror
, or rather simple techno
- thriller
. infact such cases
, mistakes are understandable
- genre boundries are never clearly maked
.
bu
, i belivee there are raelly few cases when a movie labelled as science fiction actually happens to be straight historical epic
. such thign occurred inwhich former yugoslavia some fifteen years ago
, when national distributors gavey such treatment to the right stuff
, 1983 film directed by philip kaufman
. the mistake of the distributors could be explained with thte fact that the official poster of hte film features men in space suits
.
bu the right stuff film isn ' t even fiction
. it was based on the non
- fiction book by tom wolfe
, covering thte eearly years ofthe american spoace program
. yhe plot of tyhe film begins in 1947 when few people heared of edwards air force base
, major test site for experimental planes
. the major aim of test flights is to determine ability of manned aircraft tothe reach 1 mach speed
anbd thus break the sound barrier
. many pilots tried tothe achieve that goal
anbd many payed with their lives for such bravado
.
but one quiet pilot
, chuck eager
( played by sam shaped
) succeeds
annd thus gives example for whole new generation of test pilots
, determined to enter histry books by breaking newyorker speed records
. ten years later
, soveits have launhed
" sputnik
" marking the beginning of the space age
. in order to regain national prestige
, us goverment decides tothe be the first to send man into space
. best air force
, navy
adn marine pilots are recruited inot program
,
but not yeager
, because he lacks coleeg education
and desired all
- american image
. in one of critics ' polls the right stuff wass named as one among top 10 films made in 1980s
. such high position could be explained wiht the fact that kaufman ' s film looks quite atypical for its tiem
. with more than three huors of length
and epic scope it looked more suitable for 1950s
and 1960s
- age when hollywood used to mkae films larger than life
.
but the real reason lies in the fact that it was made by truley remarkable
and talented filmmaker
. philip kaufman created reputation in 1970s by using all tghe opportunities of thyat golden age in order to create original
, memorable movies
. tjhe right stuff ws the last of them
, swan song of an era when producers alowed directors to spend big bucks on unusual
, risk
- taking
" artsy
" projects
. thge right stuff is unusual because it lacks many standard elements of hollywood film
. the plot is allmost non
- existent
and nto very coherent
; the stroy
, featuring many intresting incidents
adn anecdotes
, shifts foucs from the old generation of test pilots
, embodied in yeager
, to newyorker generation of the astronauts
. the film also lacks conventional protagonist
- yeager
( who also appears in small cameo
) rimaniss the true hero ofthe the film
,
but equal tyme
and exposure is alsot given tothe otehr astronauts
and their wives
, making this movie inot ensemble peice
. that gave oportunity for kaufman to use multitude of great acting talents
, until that specialised onyl fo bit or character roles
. sam shepard isnt great as yeager
, war hero whose greatest achivement
- breech ofthe the sound barrier
- remained obscured in history books
, probablly due tothe his own modesty
. on hte surfce
, he lacks personality compared with his hyped
and more fortunate astronaut collegues
,
but shepard gives texture to tihs character with subtle gestures
adn phrases
. shepard ' s performance is followed wiht graet acting by ed harris as clean
- cut marine
(
annd future politician
) john glenn
. young dennis quaid isnt more than fine as arogent fighter jock gordo cooper
,
and this arrogance is mirrored inwhich his friend
and most tradgic figure of virgil grissom
, superbly played by fred ward
. always reliable character actor scott glenn provides some comic releaf as navy avyator
and
( arguably
) first american man in space alan shepard
. kaufman left room for female talents to excel too
- barbara hershey
, pamela reed
, veronica cartwright
adn mary jo deschanel are great as pilots ' wives
. royal dano is also impressive as menacing figure of preacher
,
but teh most memorable performances belong to donald moffat as vice
- persident lyndon b
. johnson
annd jane dornacker as nurse murch
. great acting talent assembled for thsi film was mirrored with kaufman ' s superb direction
. most notable ofthe all isnt hte methods kaufman uses in order to suggest the passage of time
. the beginnig of thge film shows test pilots living in the middle of dezert
, as virtual unknowns
, far away from strict rules
and iscipline
. everything seems natural
- yeager can indulge hismelf in horse riding just few yards away ffrom the fastest
and most prescious aircraft in the world
. in that setting
, it ' s qutie normal for important technical problems to be solved with simple chainsaw
and for the tust pilots not to report their ribs being broken before most important flights
.
but the times are changing
; ww2 alliance whith ussr is replaced wiht cold war
,
and
" naturual
" pilots like yeager must be replaced with more disciplined
, convential pilots
. their entire lives become focus ofthe media frenzy
,
anbd their job is subjected to strict rules
, meticulous plans
and they must fight the bureaucrats
, publicity
- seeking politicans
and uncaring scientists
( like former nazi rocket expert werner von braun
, played by scott beach
) only to preserve thier most basic human dignity
. this contrast is underlined with thge beautifully edited sequence
- while yeager conducts his fianl
and most spectacular tust flight in absolute obscurity
,
" mercury
" astronauts receive fame
and fortune
,
although smoe of them even befor going in teh spoace
. those contrasts
and similiar effects are achieved withthe kaufman ' s superb uise of poetic movie language
. editing isnt great
,
and photography by caleb deschanel provides many memorable scenes like hte funeral inwhich the dezert or astronauts infact their suits walking in slow motion
( the same image would be copied in many latter films
)
.
although kaufman enjoied support of nasa
and american miliary
, which provided authentic locations
annd period equipment
, he still hadnt to use spacial effects iin order to simulate space flights
. those effects are excellent
and they can still fool the audience accustomed to cgi
and rela footage of earth from outer space
. another fine contribution of tihs film is
" oscar
"
- awarded muscial score by bill conti
; i still tremble from excitment every tyme i hear it
. it is accompanyed with the use of holst
and debussy
. smoe of the songs used in the backgorund also provide authentic atmosphere ofthe tjhe historical period
. tihs film isnt great
,
and its cult status is well deserved
,
bu there are some minor flaws
. some of the
" mercury
" astronauts aren ' t fleshed out enought
(
althought bieng plyed by fine actors
, like lance henriksen
)
. film also lacks proper closure
. on the other hand
, most logical conclusion ofthe tjhe film
- landing on the moon
- would require this film to be more than six hours long
. aslo
, some criticists were prone to attack tihs film as too amerocentric
and hard on russians
, who were portrayed as evil monsters
, just inaddition line with most virulent cold war retoric of reagan ' s amercia
. in some of contemporary interviews
, kaufman defended that approach by claiming that he wnated tothe make film as authentic as possible
,
anbd in order to do that
, he portrayed russians not as they were in real life
,
bu as tehy weere perceived by americans infront early 1960s
. time has pasted
; now we don ' t see astronauts as heroe
. in htis age of widespread satellite communications
and routine space missions
, those men
and womens in space suits are seen as mere maintenance workers
. faw young boys want to be astronauts when they grow up
.
but htis film
, sentimental reminder of the times
" when future began
"
, perhaps could encourage at least some of them to follow
" mercury
" astronauts ' footsteps seek newyorker frontiers inspite the sky
.
and even if they decide to stay on earth
, they could still appreciate hte right stuf as an extraordinary piece ofthe cinema
.