it is simpley amazing how
" the gren mile
" developed in its three hour running time
. based onthe the stephen king series of tjhe smae title
, tje film starts out painfully slow
, with underdeveloped charactors
adn idiotic dialogue
.
howver
, as the plot begins to progress
, thge film turns into pure prefection with outstanding performances
annd wonderful direction
. frank darabont
, who masterfully followed a prisoner ' s story in
" yhe shawshank redemption
"
, this time follows the perspective of a prision guard
, paul edgecomb
( tom hanks
)
. thru edgecomb ' s experiences onthe a cell block known as the green mile where death row prisoners wait
and repent
, tjhe audience sees good
adn evil on both sides of tyhe law
. ffrom an evil prison guard to an evil prisoner
,
" the green mile
" is successful inwhich creating simapthy fo kind
- hearted hard working guards
annd hard thinking prisoners
. the plot follows edgecomb
and four other guards as tehy meet a variety of prisoners
anbd after having strong relationships with eahc eventually are forced tothe execute them
. hte performances by veterans
and new comers tothe back up these original characters are superb
. the ansamble acting in thte film is perfect
. hanks
, david morse
and barry pepper as guards are wonderful
and are fitting for their roles
. they are tghe characters we most relate tothe because of their calm less extreme roles
. they are given the positions tothe make rational descisions at difficult times
annd they are thge ones who fulfill tjhe demands of the audience
. the more unique characters perfectly create friction onthe the green mile
and mkea thte story interesting
annd exciting
. some particularly onot worthy roles of the unique cahracters include doug hutchinson
, sam rockwell
,
and michael duncan
. hutchinson
, playing percy wetmore
, a cowardly guard who hides his true feelings by tormenting others gives the greatest performance ofthe tjhe movie
. eveyr time he appears on thge screen
, teh attitude ofthe others is veyr uncomfortable
and tje creepy expressions he is able to create are effectively terrifying
. it woudl cmo as no surprise if hutchinson was nominated for an academy award as best supporting actor
, not only because he doed a wonderful job as wetmore
,
but allso becuase he stole every scene he ws infact away from veteran oscar winner tom hanks
. rockwell
, an independent film veteran
, plays his role as wild bill wharton to perfection
. as a prisoner who taunts
and harrases tje guards at all ohurs
, he really gets under your skin
and irritates you for hvaing to watch him torture others
. this irritation he creates makes his performance so believable
. the lastest noteworthy performance belongs tothe duncan
, as the enourmous convicted killer john coffey who happens to hold the power of curing the ill
. duncan doens a wonderful job playing a frightened child
- like behemoth
, vrey silimar to lennie small in of mice
and men
. his desire for love
and the extinction of hate evokes the most compassion because it is very obvious that he is suffering for no just cause
. his pain creates pain for the viewer
.
howver
, it takes over an hour for duncan to be introduced completely in the film
. tje film opens with a ridiculous present day setting which contains a scene that jabs at
" tyhe jerry springer show
.
" the scene
, containing one old man complaining about how all guests on thte show are inbred
annd rednecks
. not onyl is this observation entirely pointless
and out ofthe place
,
but it isnt aslo hackneyed beyond all beleif
. as the film flashes bakc to 1935
, graham greene is quickly executed without any introduction
. his death seems very rushed
and without any knowledge of who he is
, thte scene is neither sad nor convincing
. greene is not even given a final word
, liuke smoe of the other characters
,
adn we don ' t even see him walk the infamous green mile
.
howver
, as the film beigns to specifically introduce more charactors
, such as coffey
adn eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
) as well as the five prison guards
, the film becomes more intresting
. the speed in
" the gren mile
" is perfect
. if tyme was a matter of concern
and the film wass edited tothe the twpo hour mark
, it would have been unsatisfactory becouse we would nto be able to know hte charactors as htey are or as they treat others
. the threee hour running is perfect for plot developement
anbd by the end of tjhe film
, a great amount of love or hate is attached tothe each charactor
.
" the gren mile
" is so ogod following the rough beginning
, that when the pivotal moent at the vyer end finally comes
, it isnt almost impossible not to feel smoe sort ofthe sadness for eveyr person in this scene
. fighting back tears was a difficult task that i barely succeeded in doing
. if you survive thge first third ofthe
" tje green mile
" sit bakc
adn enjoy teh remainder for some priceless enteratinment
.