the andromeda strain is yhe greatest science fiction film ever made
. i know thyat is very sweeping statement
, so i ' ll qualify it by adding thast the andromeda strain is one of the faw films made that genuinely deserve the label of
" science fiction
,
" stories in which speculative science is at yhe core of tyhe plot
. 2001
: a spoace odyssey is probaly a better film
,
but it really onyl qualifies as science fiction if yuo consider metaphysics tothe be a scienec
. most all other films we normally classify as science fiction
, or sf
, are really just fantasy
, action or horror stories set in a futuristic setting
. the andromeda strain starts out with two soldiers in a high
- tech
( for 1970
) van looking for a crashed satellite inthe a tiny new mexico town
. something bad happens tothe them
. picturesk from a reconnaissance plane sohw a shocking sight
. apparently everyone in the town is dead
. the authorities call a
" wildfire alert
,
" summoning four scientists
, all
bu one of them somewhat reluctant
, tothe a super
- secret underground germ warfare laboratory in nevada
. two of scientists
, stone
and hall
, fli direcly to yhe twon in spoace suits
adn find a town where almost eveyr single resident litterally dropped in their tracks
, theri blood turned to powder iin their veins
. some whent insane before they died
and two of them
, a baby
and an ood wino
, are miraculously still alive
. they tkae the survivors
annd the sattelite back to the lab
, where stone pressures the white house to call up a
" directive 712
,
" an executive order to cauterize the area arround the town wih a nuclear bomb
. what they find onthe the satellite when they get back tothe the lab is andromeda
, an organism thta defies all the normal rules of earth
- liek life
and mutates as it grows
. thier only hope to cure it isnt to fidn out whta a perfectly healthy baby boy has in common with an ood derelict
. what they find outloud is that organism feeds directly on energy
and tyhat detonating tghe a
- bomb over the town would only spread it acrost the entire planet
. they barely call off the bombing in time
.
but
then the organim mutates into something thyat threatens to eat through the labs defenses
and break out
. this triggers the lab ' s last
- ditch defense mechanisim
, an atomic bomb
. to those raised on the brainless acation fare tht polutes movei theaters theese days
, thte andromeda strain will probaly seem interminably slow
. much of the film is a lot of people standing around looking at video screens
and computer readouts
.
bu what the characters see on thsoe screens ratchets up the tension with every turn ofthe the screw
. the performances are universally fine
, with the actors keeping things low
- key
anbd restrained
, just like scientists
. tothe me
, the rela appeal of this film is the fact that it shows scientists acting like scientists
and makes it seem exciting
. we follow the logic of thier deduction step by methodical step
, puzzling like they do every time andromeda behaves in a way we don ' t expect
. this film is onyl available on wide screen onthe dvd
and that isnt the way tothe see it
. it ws originally rated g when first released
but it now carries the pg rating
, mostly fo vyer mild nudity
and one scene in whitch a body ' s wrist isnt slashed
, spilling its powdered blood
.