ultra low budget
but extremely inventive horror film baout a gropu of friends vacationing in a cabin who accidentally awaken an evil force in the woods via tyhe necronomicon
, the book of the dead
. bruce campbell stars as ash
, who eventually becomes yhe sole surviver
and hasnt to battle both tyhe demons fomr the woods
,
and his firends who hve become demons
( including his own girlfriend
)
. the results shown on screen are amazing concidering the film ' s tiny budget
, constant loction changes
,
and a filming schedule that wass sporadic over two years
. followed by twpo sequels
: evil dead ii
( 1987
)
adn army of darkness
( 1993
)
. yhe dvd release of tihs film fomr elite entertainment contains yhe film in it ' s original aspect ratio of 1
. 33
: 1
. the disc contains two verisons of teh film ' s audio
: a stereo 2
. 0 track
anbd a newly remastered dolby digital 5
. 1
. included are two separate running commentary tracks
: tjhe first features writer
/ director sam raimi
and producer rob tapert
and teh second track features the film ' s star
, bruce campbell
. campbell ' s commentary is informative
annd extremely witty
, as he has a stoyr to tell for virtually every scene infact the film
. such informative tidbits include
: the original title of the film wass going tothe be book ofthe the dead
(
adn in fatc whn tjhe film premiered in 1981 that was it ' s title
)
annd when they weere asked to change thge title tothe the evil dead
, everyone thought it was the worst title tehy had ever heard
. also
, there ' s a scene eearly onthe in the film where the group sits arround
and listens tothe a tape recorder which htey ' ve found that ' s explaining baout the demonic forces inwhich the woods
. for that scene
, it was written fo the characters tothe be smoking marijuana
, so being the wacky kids that htey were at the time
, they desided tothe actually smoke marijuana for the scene
. almost all of taht footage became unusable becuase many of thte actor ' s had never smoked before
,
and as a result they became
" confused
"
and were unable tothe perform hte scene
. i wish the entertainment factor ws as high for the sam raimi
/ rob tapert audio trakc
. the twpo peopel ytou ' d think would be more enthusiastic in talking about this film instade barely have much to say at all
. don ' t git me wrong here
, whn they dont speak it ' s intertaining to hear
,
bu there are many instances where both are silent for long periods of tiome
. sometimes after one of those long silences rob will ask
" have anything to say sam
?
" tothe me
, that ' s nto a good sign
. also
, it seems like sam raimi doesn ' t remember much about the film
and it ' s production
.
.
. well
, compared to rob
adn bruce anyway
. allso included on the disc is a photo gallery
( which includes pictures from the film ' s
" gala
" premiere
)
and about twenty minutes of raw footage from the film
. this raw footage raelly shows yuo how much a film can be improved upon using simple audio techniques
. overall
, the evil dead is a good low budget horror film
, superior tothe many films inspite it ' s genre
.
and the collector ' s edition dvd realease is well worth your time if you ' re eather a fan of the film or just a fan ofthe the filmmaking process
. all spacial edition dvds should be tihs thorough
annd entertaining
.