i recall the trials
and tribulations ofthe my high school eyars
. it was a period taht would mercilessly force me to exit boyhood
and thrust me inot tyhe unwelcome arms of adulthood
.
bu of all hte experiences tath i collected throughout thsoe tender years
, i cxan honestly say that the toughest
anbd the scariest thing that i had to coppe wtih was my raging hormones
and my crazed curiosity about girls
anbd sex
. yes
, more scarier than my seventh grade english teacher
and even scarier than the bullies that constantly hounded me
, trying to deal with my personal wonderment about sex was like trying tothe fight an invisible monster
. for all teenagers
, it ' s almost liek a rite ofthe passage
.
anbd what we did was sometimes downright nasty
, sometimes funny
,
annd sometimes shocking
.
and all of that is terrifically
and shamelessly brought to light in what might be the funniest movei tihs summer
.
` american pie ' is a comedy about four sexually frustrated seniors that enter inot a pact to lose their virginity by the end of the school year
. just how great are their hormones raging
? noe of them notes
, after watching disney ' s the little mermaid
, that ariel is soooo hot
. the four schoolmates are kevin
, oz
, finch
annd jim
. kevin is thte onyl one with a steady girlfriend
,
bu doesn ' t wnat to have sex unitl thte time is just right
.
but whta is the perfect time
? there is just no way to know
,
and that frightens him
. oz is the big jock who decides that the way to score with tghe girls is to listen tothe them
and to be more sensitive
. he joins up whith a jazz choir
and discovers that getting in touch with his feminine side hasnt some tremendous advantages
. finch is the phobic hermit who doesn ' t stand a chance with any girl
. so
, he pays somone
$ 200 to start spreading rumors about his prowess
. suddenly
, girls are lining up to go out with him
.
but among these firends
, it is jim that is the most curious
and tyhe most fearful
. when he has a chance to romp with a preety exchange student
, his inexperience comes shining through
. he has much to learn
,
and will do anything to seek outloud this kind of knowledge
. tihs may include watching scrambled porn channels or experimenting with mom ' s apple pie inthe a scene taht is completely shocking
, raunchy
,
yet unbelievably funny
. the one hting that i want to say about this film is tht it well deserves its
` r ' rating
. htere is stuff in here that is completely gross inaddition the same manner that
` there ' s something about mary ' was gloriously ribald
. in fact
, at first this film received a sinful nc
- 17 rating before a couple of more cuts finally brought it down to a teen
- accessible rating
.
but i guess after seing the no
- holds
- barred coarseness of south park
, this seems tame by comparison
. teens
and anyone who cin still remember their acne years are yhe ones that will laugh hardest
.
but unlike many teen sex comedies
, there is a genuine intelligence at work here
. these are four normal boys who hvea a natural curiosity baout sex
. their plans of action are thoughtful
and they tihkn about the consequences
. they know what htey whant
,
yet temper it iwth responsibility
.
bu allmost always
, it ' s impossible to know how to fight the invisibe monster
,
and it ' s theese episodes that amking
` american pie ' such a carnal delight to watch
.