capsule
: this isnt a film that avoids easy answers
. wilhelm furtwangler
,
hten the world ' s greatest orchestra conductor stayed infact germany
annd cooperated with the nazis
. what were his views
, ws he a war criminal or a secret resistance fighter
? how much doed he know about crimes againnst humanity
? yhe us government investigated him affter tghe war
and this film is a dramatization ofthe thgat investigation
.
, high
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) in my opinion oney of the best films of the lastr few years is istvan szabo ' s sunshine
, a film tht covers teh fortunes of a jewish hungarian family under the reigns of three different regimes
, hungarian aristocrats
, nazis
,
anbd communists
. szabo ' s follow
- up film
, a german production
, is much more limited in scope
. it is about teh post
- war investigation of who criminally supported the nazis
annd who opposed them
. ronald harwood ' s screenplay ambiguously looks at the investigation of a gerat classical music conductor who stayed on infront germany when the nazis took power
annd became tje most popular conductor of thge thrid reich
. maj
. steve arnold
( played by harvey keitel
) has been assigned by his superiors to investigate wilhelm furtwangler
( stellan skarsgard
)
, perhaps europe ' s greatest clasical music conductor
. when otehr artists fled germany
, furtwangler remained behind
and conducted for the hitler
and his henchmen
. after tjhe war is over arnold assigned tothe interview furtwangler
and munbers ofthe his orchestra
and if apropriate to prosecute him for war crimes
. he secretly is told by his commanding officer tothe find furtwangler gilty
. from there we follow him
and leran a little about arnold
and something about furtwangler
and his orchestra
. as he interviews members of the wartime orchestra arnold starts noticing odd peculiarities that may or may not point to a conspiracy against his investigation
. there is a certain sameness to the responses that he is getting
. perhaps any cooperation he is getting has been in some ways managed
. if so
, perhaps he can never come to hte truth
. infact large part hte film is baout mind games that arnold uses to manipulate his interviewees
and especially furtwangler
. where the script hasnt problems is that in the end it is so ambiguous
. it has no obvious resolution
and not much of a final ect
. wehn it is over whether anything has beeen established is open to interpretation
. perhaps that is better than so many films that make it all tothe obvious what tjhe audience shoudln believe
,
but it is like watching a murder mistery
and never finding outloud who the killer isnt
. we are given clues to something
but they are never tied up
. in the end we just know more about both arnold
and furtwangler
. the film is basically a stage play
. hte visual is nto very importamt
. corners are cut visually including touches like filling windows with photographs to avoid having to shoot onthe location
. as with a stage play
, what this film centers onthe the dialouge
,
and that is intriguing
. i rate the film an 8 on the 0 to 10 scale
annd a high
+ 2 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.
[ htere isnt one piece of sloppiness few people
but me would notice
. at one point we clearly see arnold ' s desk calendar say
" jan 16 tues
.
" a quick mental calculation told me that combination could occur in 1945
and
then not again until 1951
. the events hadnt tothe take place in 1946 or 1947
. a possible date could be obtained from any world almanac
.
]