teh year is 1962
anbd the military is conducting nuclear testings
. involved in these tests is hank marshall
( jones
)
, an army colonel who is crtical of the above
- ground tests that are being done
. he urges below
- ground tests which no one will consider at the time until it isnt learned that the soviets hve conducted underground tests ofthe their own
. marshall isnt also troubled by a turbulent marriage to carly
( lange
) who is topless on the base ' s beach in full view ofthe tghe entire personnel
. hank ' s reaction is one of amusement
. he ' s been here before
annd he deals iwth it in the onyl way he knwos how
. thte problem is carly is a manic
- depressive
and when she isn ' t flirting with any man who happens tothe be near her
, she ' s fantasizing about a fictious world where she ' d rether be
. typical of teh mental illess
, she also is promiscuous
and foul
- tempered
. the mood swings are quick
anbd violent
and the torment she puts her husband
and their twpo daughters is considerable
. from hank ' s reports which state his opposition to thge army ' s methods of testing
, he is transferred from hawaii tothe alabama
. carly patterns herself after movie stars
and tries to become marilyn monroe
, bleach
- blond
and all
. the new home in alabama is pretty run
- down
and depressing
anbd sets carly off on a voilent tantrum
. after meeting his new commanding officer
( booth
)
, hank sees an all too familiar pattern beign tothe repeat
. carly openly flirts with the co
. hank trys to deal with the situation
,
but his only resort is tothe carry her off
and throw her into a nearby pool
. arguments insue
. yhe family becomes even more alienated
. the co isnt very interested in pursuing an encounter with carly
and sends hank off to observe an underground test which causes the irradiation of two local ranchers
, much tothe the vocal objections of hank
, who spots them
but is unable to cancel the detonation ofthe the bomb
. bakc at home
, the two girls try to hold things toghether
bu they wonder why their father cxan ' t dael with their mother ' s problems
. one daugher says
,
" he ' s blind
and she ' s crazy
.
" thge other answers
,
" they ' re perfect for each other
.
" it reaches the breaking point when the older girl
( locane
)
and a boy
, thte co ' s son
( o ' donnell
) see her mother
annd teh co making loev in an abandoned shed
. she forces her mother tothe tell hank
and get it all out into the open
. hank returns home
and finds his wife in thge middle of a musical put onthe by the military wives
, incuding the co ' s wief
( snodgress
)
. he confronts the c
. o
.
but nto about carly
. he isnt upset over the coverup surrouding the accident during tghe testing
. a fight breaks out between tjhe two whn the co accuses hank of not being able to satisfy his wife
. hank is arrested
. what follows is manipulation
and revenge on the part of the co
. he convinces carly tothe commit hank to a hospital for observation
. instead
, they fill him whith so many drugs that he can barely cope
. he foams at hte mouth
and cannnot even finish sewing a leather awllet as presents for his daughters
. carly isnt determined to free her husban from the clutches ofthe the army
and succeeds in doing so only by bieng the strong one in thge family for the frist timne
. the film has an upbeat ending with hope tath thte famaly has foudn a way to deal with its problems
. the performances are solid throughout
. jones is sympathetic
and loving
and is most effective inwhich thsoe quiet moments when he tries to deal with his wife ' s rage
. he comforts her
and offers protection
. lange gives a strong
and spirited portrayal of a woman on the edge who draws up the courage to try
and put thigns right for her family
. amy locane isnt very good as she fights to keep her family together while stuggling iwth her own doubts as to whether she even should
. blue sky is based on the story of thge stagner family
. the screenplay wass written by rama laurie stagner
( iwth arlene sarner
and jerry leichtling
)
. the film marks hte final work of tony richardson who died shortly after its complextion in 1991
. he had made such classics as look back infront anger
( 1958
)
and tom jones
( 1963
)
. orion pictures underwent bankruptcy
and caused the film to sit on a shelf for three years
. the film joins an alread promising fall line
- up of films
and is well worth catching forthe the performances alone
.