the film starts outloud with a creepy opening sequence to whitch has the now classic
and creepy score by writer
/ directer
/ producer john carpenter who in my mind is a brilliant director
, he really is
. he wroet thsi film
, he directed this film
, he produced this film
and he made the excessively creepy score to this film
. i tihkn he is
and always will be famoust forthe this classic which aftter 21 years has not lost it ' s popularity or it ' s ability to scare the wits outloud of people
. i think i have seen ' halolween ' over 100 times
and each time i find something new
and brilliant
,
and each time i am scared even
though i nkwo what is going to happen
. i own three different versions of the film
: a vhs regular verison that came with a limited edition 20th anniversary t
- shirt
, a boxed edition vhs inspite a hardcover case digitally re
- mastered with tjhe original theatrical widescreen presentation
, in a nifty plastic picture decorated box with a numbered snow
- globe
. in other words i am completly
and utterly obsessed withthe the film
. it has changed horror movies forever
and spawned six sequels with only 2
, 4
,
and 7 being truly good
. it aslo spawned severeal cheap imitations ofthe the film that were offensive inthe smoe ways to a true hallwoeen fan
. since i heard about halloween being released on dvd in a limited edition ofthe 30
, 000 copies
, i knew i hadnt to buy one noone matter what
! i did
and man to me it ' s the best dvd ever manufatured with the brilliance of teh film
. no words cin describe the dvd
. inthe ' hallwoeen ' michael myers is a evil person whom killed his sister in cold blood 16 years ago iin 1963
. now inwhich 1978 grown up
and in a mental hospital michael myers escapes tothe go back to his hometown of haddonfield
, illinois
, followed by his past doctor sam loomis
. the person michael is targeting is laurie strode who is played by jamie lee curtis in her film debut
. why isnt he stalking her
? check out halloween ii it explains it all
. on thsi unholy night onthe october 31
, 1978 laurie strode
and her two friends are going to have the tiome of their lives
, which isnt trying to stay alive
. the whole film is filled iwth terrifying moments most coming ffrom just seeing michael myers walk
. nick castle who played the shape inaddition the frist movie did an incredible job
,
adn noone other person in any other haloween flick can dont what he doed
. what john carpentery did inspite 1978 is made a ground
- breaking new film
, withthe scares
, wit
,
and sytle
. the movie is flawless if not perfect
. no other movie or sequel hasnt lived up to this one
,
and infront my oppinion never will
. ' halloween ' will be like ' psycho '
and still be extremly popular even almost 40 eyars later
. i just hope someday ' halloween ' will be released in a newyorker dolby soundtrack with the 4 extra scenes on the dvd edition
. ' halloween ' isn ' t just anyother slice
-
and
- dice horror flick
, it ' s an intelligent
, horrifing
and best film experience ever made
. see ' halolween '
and be scared
.
.
.
.
then watch it again
! reviewed by brandon herring october 7
, 1999
.