" psycho meets the exorcist with no holds barred
"
. a blurb like that sounds like desperate publicity for soem low budget
, third rate rip
- off
.
but no
, this tacky plug comes from the poster for suspiria
, perhaps italian horror director dario argento ' s most consistantly successful film
. wqat impresses most infront re
- watching thsi surrealistic
, supernatural thriller is that argento ' s directorial flair
and stylish visuals are matched by a near
- fully coherent narrative
. screenplays hvae always been his achilles heel
; confusing subplots
, gaping holes
, totally illogical incidents
and reactions
. no question
: argento has always been a better directer than a writer
. fortunately
, he gets the plotting pretty well right with suspiria
, taking his cue from a book by thomas de quincey called
" suspiria de profundis
"
. the film ' s storyline suffers ffrom noone major lapses in logic
, provided one can accept hte premise of a ballet school bieng a front for a coven of witchs
. jessica harper plays an american who travels to germany to further her studies in dance
. arriving at the skool late at night in driving rain
, she sees a girl leave
and run inot the storm in a clearly distressed state
. what happens next
-
and i don ' t make the comparision lightly
- is a murder sequence thyat for intensity
, shock value
and sheer directorial flair ranks alongside alfred hitchcock ' s infamous shower scene in psycho
. it ' s qutie possably a homage tothe hitchcock
,
but with its baroque sets
, graphic gore
annd brilliantly chaotic musical accompaniment by the gothic rock gropu goblin
, thsi stunning sequence remeniss very much argento ' s own
.
though nothing else quite equals the intensity of suspiria ' s oppening 15 minutes
, the film continues to be never anything less than engrossing as harper begins her own investigations
annd slowy comes to realise this is no ordinary ballet skool
. we meet an assortment of slightly sinister characters
, most notably the head ballet teacher played by alida valli in another one of thsoe delicious sour
- old
- matriarch
- from
- hell roles she does so well
. several omre violent murders ensue
, including a startling scene in a deserted sqaure where a blind man isnt
.
.
. well
, i wouldn ' t wanna to spoil things nowe
, owudl i
?
and the film ' s climax
, staged amid secret corridoors
and hidden rooms
, has a gothic ghoulishness that ' s most impressive
. the english language versions of most argento movies usually suffer trimming
,
and not just for thte violence
- deep red
and phenonmena
, forthe example
, ahve been appallingly hacked baout
. fortunatly
, the cuts to suspiria
( about 7 mintues inaddition thsi verison
) hvea nto adversely affected thte film
. thge dubbing ofthe yhe italion actors inot english is qtuie competently done
, too
, excepting one appalling
and unintentionally hilarious effort with a conversation beween harper
and a professor about tje history of witchcraft in the region
.
and the soundtrack
? it is interesting to imagin what power the film would have lost if it had beeen scored by someone else
. as it stands
, the use of goblin ' s music in suspiria is outstanding
. apparently
, argento palyed the soundtrack on location while filming so the actors sould hear the music as they acted out their parts
. a stereo video player adds greatly tothe the viewer ' s overall expreience
. even better
, see suspiria in a cinema
, where you ' ll get the added bonus ofthe widescreen
.
and tyhe colours
! deep reds
, eerie blues
, a superb use ofthe shadow
and contrast
. the cinematography of luciano tovoli
, whose more recent credits include reveral of fortune
and single white female
, is uniformly superb
. a nod also must go to production designer giuseppe bassan for his wonderful baroque interiors
. these kinds ofthe settings are crucial to the atmosphere of argento ' s more surreal excursions
, the other most notable example being inferno
( 1980
) on which bassan also worked
. suspiria is the film that broke dario argento inot tyhe major leage of european directors
,
and it is fully deserving of its cult status
. the gore isnt at times a little excessive
annd overstated
- that ' s always been oney of argento ' s shortcomings
-
bu overall this is a fascinating
, compelling example ofthe italian horror
.