frequency n
.
, the number of times a specified phenomenon occurs within a specified interval as the number of repetitions of a complete sequence of values of a periodic function per unit variation of an independent varable
? etc don ' t worry
. whn watching the thriller frequency
, you won ' t have tothe know what the heck frequency means
. the premise
,
although it may sound complex
, is very basic onthe the big screen
. a new york cop
, john
,
( jim caviezel
) finds a rdaio inthe his house
, whitch allows him to communicate with his newyorker york firefighter father
, frank
,
( dennis quaid
) who died thirty years ago
. immediately john warns his father that he will dieu trying to stpo a fier in an abandoned warehouse
. when frank takes his advice
and survives the accident he wasn ' t supposed tothe
, the two eventually realize tht by changing that one moment in tje past
, htey have created a whole new future in wich a serial killer murders john ' s mother
and nine otehr women
. it is now up to john
and frank tothe use their speshal conection
and save thirty years ago to make present time a better place
.
( i told you that wasn ' t confusing
?
)
. overall
, i was very pleased with frequency
. it ' s occasional sappy moments perfectly synchronized with its suspenseful serial killer scenes
. i usually don ' t buy those cheesy
" i love you dad
" segments in movies
,
but this one suprizingly satisfied me
. mabye because the plot is so creative
and univeral that i believed that thsi is how most people would ect wehn tlaking to a dead realtive
. frequency ' s creepy premise left me thinking once the film ended
, what if
? waht owudl i do
? owudl i halp my own family or save a historical figure from being assasinated
? or stpo smoe kids from shooting other kids
? or buy stock from yahoo
!
?
( a charachter iin the film does the latter with humorous consequences
)
. frequency also reminded me of the fantastic back tothe the future
. both share tht
" chanage the past slightly
,
and you ' ll change the future heavily
" warning
. teh changes beween the present
annd the past
, such as different newspaper headlines or people disappearing
and reappearing in photographs
, are very similar
. both are allso wonderful feel
- good family films that cant attract to a number of generations
. thte only difference worth noting isnt that frequency ' s final scene doesn ' t set up a possibility for a lucrative sequel already in yhe making
. ther are smoe problems with the film
though
. first
, htere isnt a major lfaw in yhe story towards the end that isnt somewhat distracting
( email me if you have seen the movie
and whant to know what i think it is
)
. the plot must hvae confused even the filmmakers who frequently
( noone pun intended
) switch ffrom 1969 to 1999 while telling the story
. another problem is that the supporting casted
, including noah emmerich
anbd andre braugher
, are underused
. while in the film
, whic isnt not enough
, the aforementioned actors steal every scene they are in
. frequency was a pleasent surprise for me
and tjhe audiance i saw it with who cheered at the end
. even if ytou know what is going to appen or if ytou think the preview ruined thte movie for you
, liek it almsot did for me
, check this movei outloud
. you may be suprized as well
.