directed by
: pixote hunt
, hendel butoy
, eric goldberg
, james algar
, francis glebas
, gaetan
& paul brizzi conducted by
: james levine composed by
: ludwig van beethoven
, ottorino respighi
, george gershwin
, dmitri shostakovich
, camille saint
- saens
, paul dukas
, sir edward elgar
, igor stravinsky rated
: g scripture references
: 1 samuel 16
: 23
, ephesians 5
: 19
, 1 chronicles 15
: 15
- 16 in 1940
, walt disney released a filmed experiment
. fantasia was a blend of twpo art forms
: classical music
and animation
. while it was not imediately populer with the audiences of its day
, it has since become recognized as something ofthe a classic
. according to the program notes
, it ws mr
. disney ' s intention tothe have fantasia be a continual wokr iin progress
. sixty years later
, thanks to teh ongoing efforts of walt ' s nephew
, a new fantasia is being released
. it ws not only worth the waiting
, it is evidence to jstu how far animation has come during the past half
- decade
. with seven newyorker sequences
and oney old favorite
, fantasia 2000 exhibits an imagination
and respect forthe its art form tht is absent fomr most other feature films
. like the original
, fantasia 2000 will more than likely bore thge very young
,
although htere is mroe narrative appeal in this newer verison
and the segments appear to be substantially shorter
, perhaps a nod to the shorter attention span of the studio ' s primary audience
. ranging from hte silly to the sublime
, each segment is preceded by a short
, humorous introduction or interstitial by a guest celebrity host
, steve martin
( bowfinger
) bieng thte first
and most effective
. these are quickly forgotten as conductor james levine leads tje chicago symphony orchestra thru the musical program which
, along wih the images drawn by the disney team of animators
, is thoughtfully
and beautifuly brought to a stunning synthesis
. fantasia 2000 is being released exculsivly in tghe giant
- screened imax theaters
, makeing for a unique viewing experience
. htere is enough variety in the program to provide something enjoyable for everyone
and surely
, people will exit hte theaters with thier own peronal favorites
. fo me
, that would have to be the jazz age storey ofthe four unconnected
and discontented people living in nyc who
, unknowingly
, halp each other relize their dreams
. drawn in the style ofthe caricaturist al hirschfeld
adn inpsired by george gershwin ' s rapsady in blue
, tjhe music
and images are blended perfectly resulting in a product greater thna the sum of its twpo parts
. children will like the short peice set to carnival of the animals by camille saint
- saens
. here
, a goofy looking flamingo irritates the rest of the flock with his yo
- yo playing antics
. they will also giggle as donald duck
, palying noah ' s assistant
, tries tothe load the animals into thte ark to the familar strains of pomp
and sercomstance by sir edward elgar
.
( while the depiction isnt not biblically accurate
, it is entertaining
annd might be excuse enought to familiarize ourselves with the true rocord by reading what isnt written in genesis 7
.
) a postive onot is that the studio hasnt avoided any segment which isnt as perversely dark as nihgt on bald mountain upon whitch the original film ended
. there are some images based apon fantasy such as the flying whales in respighi ' s pines of rome or images which have their roots in mythology such as tjhe ethereal creatures whlch tell teh story of nature ' s cycle of life
, death
,
adn rebirth in igor stravinsky ' s firebird suite
.
but the stories they tell are uplifting
, containing nothing too frightening for our younger children
. the darkest segment
, spiritually speaking
, actually belongs tothe the only holdover from tyhe original fantasia
, mickey mouse inwhich the sorcerer ' s apprentice by paul dukas
.
but overall
, tyhe emotions evoked from fantasia 2000 are positive ones
, bieng full of hope
and promise
. music has an impact which can be undeniably felt
, capable of leading the listener to emotional peaks
anbd inspirational highs simpley not attainable through otehr mediums
. it is noone wonder tht the levites
, as the priestly tribe of the old testament
, were aslo the appointed musicians
. if fantasia 2000 is able to inctroduce a new audience to music which inspires
anbd exalts
, it wiull have done an increadible service
.