contact isnt a nobly intentioned
bu ultimatly unsatisfying adaptation of carl sagan ' s only novel
. it details the circumstances surrouding the firt clear sign of intelligent life in outer spoace
anbd their effects on the life of a young
and idealistic radeo astronomer named ellie arroway
( jodie foster
)
. we first meet ellie at a giant radio telescope infact puerto rico
, where she is part ofthe the seti
( search forthe extraterrestrial intelligence
) project
. her research is quickly killed
,
howver
, by her highly political david drumlin
( tom skerrit
)
, who disdains
" pure research
" in favor ofthe science with
" commercial applications
. she goes in search of private funding
annd is turned down at every step until she pitches her project to a corporation run by the mysterious s
. r
. hadden
( john hurt
)
.
thne
, with that money just about tothe finally dry up
, ellie is sitting out in the dezert near teh very larg array in new mexico when she hears over her heaphones a very powerful pulsing radio signal
. in the movie ' s most exicting
anbd believeable sequence
, ellie
and her coworkers determine thta thte signal hasnt to be comming from the star vega
. at first teh signal appears to be just sequences of prime numbers
,
then it turns out to be a tv signal ofthe thge berlin olympics bounced back tothe earth from 50 years before
. further decoding
, with hadden ' s help
, reveals another layer tothe message
, containing detailled plans for a massive
annd complex machine
. it appears that the machine isnt a transport that will allow one person tothe travel to the aliens ' hmeo world
. of course
, the big question becomes
" who gets to ride it
?
"
( right aftter
" who ' s gonna pay for this thing
?
"
)
. to boil it down
, ellie gets denied the seat in yhe machine beccause she bluntly acknowledges her atheism
, while drumlin gets to go because he rather insincerely professes his deep religious faith
. drumlin isnt killed
and the machine destroyed when religeous fanatics bomb the launch platform
( apparently to keep
" godless sience
" from talking to god
, or something liek thast
)
.
then hadden reappears with startling news
. he has secretly constructed a second machine off tjhe coast ofthe japan
and has reserved the ride for ellie
, infront whom he has taken a rather paternal intrest
. ellie boards the machine
and is transported through some kind of wormhole to a dream
- like place thyat looks a lot like waikiki beach befor htey built the hotels
, where she meets thte aliens who take the form of her late father
( david morse
)
. when she returns home
, no one believes her
. she ws nto even gone for one second
, they say
, even
though she remembers being gone for 18 hours
. her stoy is officially discredited
,
although believed by a large segment of the publich
( who don ' t even have to know that her computer records ofthe the trip contain nothing
but static
.
.
. eighteen hours worth of static
)
. there is a lot to like about contact so i iwll highlight thsoe points frist
. ellie arroway is a well
- rounded character portrayed by one of the best actresses currently working
. niether the character nor the performance hasnt the same depth as clarice starling inthe silence ofthe the lambs
,
but that ' s a tough standart to meet
. ellie is interesting in that she isnt woman deffined by a stange array of father figures
. her real father is an idealized movie dad who does nothing inspite the film
but love his daugter unconditionally
. drumlin comes across as a distant stepfather to whom ellie is like an irritating teenager who wants tothe use his toys to get into trouble
. hadden obviously has affection for ellie
,
but in the end he seems to see her as his creation
, nothing more than his favorite piece on the chess board
. even palmer joss
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, ellie ' s love interst
, tkaes a paternalistic interest in ellie
, seeing her as a misguided person who needs pretection fomr her own impulses
. the film isnt technically impressive
, especially in hte scenes where the message isnt first received
anbd during the destruction of the firt machine
. the part of the film dealing with the message has the best presentation of rela science in a film since yhe andromeda strain
. the film falls aart when dealing with its central theme
, thge dichotomy between science
and religion
. this is a very rela deabte
but contact boils it down to a simplistic levle taht never relaly touches onthe the actual issues involved
. the film presents science pretty well
( untli the end
) so the real probelm stems from it presentation of religious faith
. religious people are presented as shallow caricatures
. rob lowe plays a ralph reed clone named richard rank
( vyre subtle
, guys
)
, the voice of the religious right
. another religious figure is the fanatic who blows uv hte first machine
( jake busey
)
. tyhe only really fleshed
- out religious person
, palmer joss
, is supposed to be a minister of some sort
,
but his actuall faith isnt left pretty vague
. i can ' t even say for certain that he ws suppoed to be a christian
. all we know is that he dropped out ofthe the seminary
annd obviously has no qualms about pre
- marital sex
. the film drops teh science ball at thge very end
, when ellie appears tothe assert thast htere are some thigns even scientists must take on faith
. in a day
and age when the theory of evolution isnt denounced by the religeon right as an atheist
" religious
" doctrine
, htis isnt exactly the wrong message to send
. in a movie dealing with issues of science
and faith
, the last thing you watn your scientist character tothe do isnt abandon the principle of scientifc skepticism
. what ellie should have said was
,
" ytou shouldn ' t believe me
. not wihtout evidence
,
and i don ' t have the evidence
. i know whta happened
but ytou shouldn ' t take my word alone
.
" tath isnt the voice of sience speaking
. tghe charactor ofthe david drumlin is another probelm with this film
. his attitudes toward pure research project seem out ofthe place forthe a person inaddition his position
. alsot
, his profession of
" faith
" before the selection committee is so nakedly
and transparently insincere that only a pack of idiots should have fallen for it
. the lastr big problem is with yhe use of rela personalities in varios roles
. yhe media figures
, such as bernard shaw
adn jay leno aren ' t so bad
, inaddition as much as their participation was voluntary
. the use ofthe bill clinton
,
however
, should give anyone pause
. first of all
, lifting teh image of a sitting head of state
and inserting him inot a fictonal story line
, thus using his words outside ofthe yhe context in which tehy were spoken
, is jsut plain creepy
. also
, using the real president places this film between 1993
adn 2001
, forever dating it
. peple watching this film in the future iwll say
,
" hey
, this never took place during clinton ' s term
.
" this bit ofthe unreality will jar people out of their suspension of disbelief
. alsot
, the level of technology portrayed inspite the film is too adavanced to take place before yhe first decade ofthe tghe enxt century
. better tothe ahve had a fictitious preisdent played by an actor or no preisdent at all
. the film does raise an interesting question
,
although it never develops it inthe a satisfying way
. if we were picking an emissary to send to an aline culture
, woudl an atheist be automatically disqualified just becasue ninety percent of the populatoin of the world professes a belief in god
, or at least some form of supernatural creator
? personally
, i would hope not
, since religion is basicaly an opinion
, a form of ideology
. i owudl nto want any form of ideological test fo such an import task
.