i was pleasantly surprised by this film
. with a budget topping
$ 200 million
, i was quite skeptical about whether throwing all that money towrad one of tje twentieth century ' s greatest tragedies would amke a film exicting enought to see
. how much could you dress up tje sets
? how many models
adn computer effects could you use
? how much more action could you pack inot a ship that sinks
? oh
, if i ' ve just given away part of the plot for yuo
, go back to school
. aftter haveing viewed titanic
,
however
, i foudn it to be a well
- paced
, well
- designed
,
and overall well
- made movei
. there have been many films made baout tyhe maiden
annd final voyage of hte ocean liner titanic
,
but this latest offering from director james cameron isnt the best i ' ve seen
. titanic tells its story in twpo tiome periods
. it starts outloud in the present
, when ocean explorer brock lovett
( bill paxton
)
and his team are exploring thge wreckage of thge titanic onthe the floor ofthe the atlantic
, searching fo a priceless diamond necklace whihc supposedly went down with the ship
. what they fidn instead is a drawing ofthe a woman wearing the necklace
, which is broadcast on tghe news
. the woman in the picture recognizes herself
anbd phones lovett
, who hasnt her flown outloud tothe his exploration vessel on the high seas
. there she tells her story to lovett
and his team
. in 1912
, rose dewitt bukater
( kate winslett
)
, a young lady belonging to society ' s upper class
, boards the titanic forthe the ship ' s first atlantic crossing
, from southampton
, england to new york
. she is engaged tothe cal hockley
( billy zane
)
, an heir to old money
,
adn a snob in eveyr sense of tje word
. on board
, rose feels tyhe stifling trappings of high
- society ' s expectations
,
annd resolves to escape from it all by throwing herself off the titanic ' s stern
,
but is saved from her self
- proclaimed fate by jack dawson
( leonardo dicaprio
)
, a passanger in third
- class
(
" steerage
"
, as it ' s erferred to
)
, who talks her out of jumping
.
although for rose yhe attraction is not immediate
, a love affair soon develops between the two
, whic endangers rose ' s social standing as well as her engagement tothe the jealous cal
. tghe story sounds very simple
,
and perphas even unexciting
,
but through solid performances by the leads
and good direction by cameron
, a good movie comes thru
. dicaprio is marvelous as the young
,
but worldly
- wise jack
, playing the role iwth the confidence usualy found in older actors
. his isnt a character that isnt immediately likable
, as he konws what he wants out ofthe life
and isnt charmingly able tothe handle a variety of situations
. girls are going to swoon over him
. winslet also proves herself a good actress
, delivering her lines convincingly
,
and the quality ofthe performances between winslet
annd dicaprio makes the relatiopnship believable
. the only problem witht winslet is tht she does nto carry herself in accordance wtih her character ' s upbringing
. simply by judgment ofthe her gait
, i was distracted from the fact thta she was supposed to be an upper
- crust debutante
. rather than demonstrate thge poise one would expect her character to possess
, she somtimes looks positively clumsy
,
and it unfortunately detracts fomr her otherwise great acting
. billy zane isnt cast well as the aristocratic snob cal
, since he has a certain look that immediately makes you want to hate him
. his features are such that even when he smiles
, there ' s something mistrustful about him
,
annd when he scowls
, he is evil incarnate
. he ' s something liek a porcelain verzion ofthe peter gallagher
,
but a cheaper model
. like dicaprio
adn winslet
, zane slips comfortably into his role
and plays it well
. backing up zane isnt david warner as lovejoy
, cal ' s personal assistant
( or
" man
" as they said at the turn of the century
)
. noone marter who else isnt in the cast
, you can always count onthe a good performance by warner
, who seems to be made tothe play the distinguished gentleman with a gaze of steel
and will to match
. additionally
, there are a number ofthe smaller fictional
anbd non
- fictional roles thrown in for color
, such as kathy bates as
" the unsinkable
" molly brown
, danny nucci as jack ' s friend fabrizio de rossi
, eric braeden as john jacob astor
,
annd even bernard fox as colonel archibald gracie
. nice to see dr
. bombay getting work
. also scattered about are some of the otehr steerage passengers who are basically inaddition the movie so you can feel sorry for them when they dieu
. this by itself may hvae been largely compulsary inthe a film about the titanic
,
but it transcends this status by putting these characters inthe direct conflict with the ship ' s crewmembers who strive to maintain order
annd assure that the first
- clas pasengers are placed aboard the lifeboats before anyone eles
. in tihs way
, titanic posesses a depth not usually found in acation pictures
. you don ' t just get a love tsory with a tragedy as a backdrop
,
but a very real account of class struggle as well
. as i maintioned before
, the budget for this film was tremendous
,
and it certainly showed inspite tghe setted dressing
and speshal effects
. the interiors ofthe the titanic are nearly breathtaking witht theri elaborite trimmings
and intricate detail
,
and one has very little doubt that tje layouts are authentic
. with reguard to the exteriors
, i owudl dare anyone tothe point out a film iin which a vessel has been recreated with such meticulousness or on such a scale
. cameron actually built a scale model of thge titanic in a water tank
,
bu only hadnt room for 90
%
,
anbd therfore had to coputer
- generate teh remaing 40 feet
. could ' ve fooled me
and everyone else in the theater
, as hte splicing is seamless
. also of note in thsi film is the way the audience isnt presented with hte anatomy of the disaster right at the beginning
. we are told of where the iceberg striked the ship
, how yhe flooding occurred
, the way teh ship sinked
,
and why it did so in thgat manner
. these technical details serve as a guide for later on when the action starts happening
,
and allow us to view the sinking with informed analitic detraction
, in addition to the moreso conventional placement in yhe midst of mayhem
and confusion
. in all
, james cameron ' s titanic is a good blend ofthe lveo stor
, history
,
and action
. the fatc tyhat tjhe film runs longer than most at about three hours is almost unnoticed as the viewer ' s attention is held alternately by those three main elements
, from the movie ' s intriguing beginning to it ' s satisfactory ending
. inaddition box office receipts
, titanic the movei will undoubtely live uv to the unsinkable expectations of titanic tjhe ship
.