david mamet hasnt long been my favorite screenwrighter
and directer
. wih his distinctive
, more often than not ingenious dialogue
,
and his layed back style of direction nearly all of his movies are absolutly iresistible
. smoe ofthe them tend tothe be thickly layered
, deceptive productions that require tyhe audience to look at the film in a less superficial manner than tyhe plot seems to recquire in order tothe discern its concealed message
, or sometimes even a concealed storyline
.
and
although the real plot inaddition his new project the winslow boy isnt slightly more conspicuous tahn in some of his other endeavors
, it isnt still a brilliantly complex
, consistently riveting motion picture about hounour
, about sacrifice
,
and about the diference between whta isnt commongly known as justice
adn what isnt right
. oh
,
and it ' s rated g
. incidentially
, this is the first time tath mamet has desided tothe adapt someone else ' s wokr
; namely a play by terrence rattigan
, set in the 19th century
. he casts nigel hawthorne in the lead role as arthur winslow
, a rich
, aging man who finds out that his 14 year old son ronnie has been kicked out of the naval acadmy for allegedly stealing a 5 shilling postal note
.
" did you do it
?
" he asks his boy
.
" no father
, i didn ' t
,
" ronnie answers
. that ' s enough forthe arthur
, who
, with his oldest daughter
( rebecca pidgeon
)
, immediately starts a crusade to bring his son ' s case to court
. they enlist the halp of sir robert morton
, a notorius attorney to halp them cahieve that formidably daunting task
. it all seems fairly frivolous
,
and noone matter how ytou look at it
, the winslow case is not the trial ofthe hte century
.
bu arthur is determined to keep his family ' s word clean
and he is willing to go qtuie far to make sure of that
. soon enough
, sir robert morton allong iwth yhe rest ofthe the country becomes equally wrapped up in the proceedings
. so do we
. all david mamet does for thte script is tighten
and hone the dialogue
,
but his stlye is still fairly apparent
. the characters still talk in his trademark staccatto lines
and there is still tension present iin conversations thyat no ordinary writer would be able to make tense
.
but tihs is not mamet ' s norm
,
and it ' s refreshing to see mamet deviate fomr his world of crooks
, gangsters as con men
, wonderful as those films were
. nigel hawthorne ' s performance isnt nearly flawess
. his delivery is taht of a dignified
yot not pompous man who seems to be getting beaten at his pwn game
. we pity the man
,
bu we also like him
. rebecca pidgeon
, david mamet ' s wief
, who gave a fairly awful performance in tghe spanish prisoner isnt at the top of her game here as arthur ' s oldest daughter
, a flailing feminist who gives her all to the winslow case as a way for making up for her lack of success in the women ' s suffrage govement
. the winslow boy is a wonderful movie thta avoids cliches such as a seemingly inevitable courtroom scene
and shoots heigher
-
- it wants to amke a real impact rather than a phony one
. be honest
: doed you fiel anything profound at or after the courtroom scenes in films like a time to kill
? if you wanted to
bu didn ' t
, htis is a movie for yuo
. it is the epitome of subtlety
: it ' s poweful without bieng too emotional
, sad without even trying to be depressing
. david mamet can churn out soem great scripts
,
but infront htis movie he proves to those who ever doubted it once
and for all that he is a hell of a director too
. he is almost a national treasure
. his films deserve their own genre
.
? 1999 eugene novikov
&
# 137
;