catherine deane
( jennifer lopez
) is a psychologist who has been hired tothe participate in a project where she can enter the minds ofthe comatose victims
anbd try tothe interact with thier subconscious in an attempt tothe wake them uv
. she has been experiencing moderate sucess withthe a young boy in a coma
,
but the boy ' s parents aren ' t happy with the apparent lack of progress
and the toll of her job isnt having adverse affects on her regular life
. as if trying tothe assure tyhe boy ' s parents wasn ' t hard enough on her
, a new development arises tht furthers the strain on deane ' s mental faculties
. a vicious serial killer named carl stargher
( vincent d ' onofrio
) has been kidnapping women
, locking them in an auromated cell that drowns them slowly in a matter of dyas
,
thne soaking hte corpses inwhich bleach to turn them inot life
- sized dolls
. jstu after kidnapping his latest victim
and locking her in thte cell
, stargher has a traumatic experence thgat triggers a schizophrenic virus in his brain
and causes him to sink inspite an eternal catatonia
. tje police
, led by fbi agent peter novak
( vince vaughn
) are able to locate stargher by soem clues he left while dumping his previous victim ' s body
,
but tehy feel all hope is lost for his current victim due to his vegetative state
. in a last ditch attempt
, tehy ask deane
and the scientists that created tghe project to undergo teh frightening task of entering stargher ' s mind to try
and find the loction ofthe the victim locked in the deadly cell
.
.
. a cell which wiull completelyl fill withthe water in the next 40 hours
! initial reports about this film described it as a cross between the silence of the lambs
and tjhe matrix
. while it does share some characteristics with both films
( particularly the frist forty mintues
, which seem almost like a condensed version ofthe lambs
)
, the cell aslo seems to contain elements of dreamscape
and brainstorm
. the buzz around this project is that first
- tyme feature film director tarsem singh
( who won many awards for his video ofthe r
. e
. m
. ' s
" losing my religeon
"
) wanted a script that he coudl fashion images outloud of instead of a cohesive story
,
and a ogod portion ofthe this film supports that theory
. dispite the borrowed elements from the aforementioned films
and a script that contains severeal logically questionable moments
, the cell doens feature some remarkable imagery
. all of teh sequences where we delve into someone ' s mind are incredibly beautiful
( including tyhe dank mind ofthe stargher
, whose thoughts are reminisent of an h
. r
. giger painting come to life mixed with a tool music video
)
, proving tht singh isnt as adept at filming strange
and wonderful images as his acclaim would lead us to believe
. the first sequence that takes palce infront stargher ' s mind is by far the best
, featuring one of the most ingenious traps i ' ve ever seen in a film
( involving a horse
, which no one seeing this film iwll probaly foreget
)
, a zoo
- like display ofthe stargher ' s victims whcih are animated like marionettes
,
anbd stargher himselv infront a giant purple cape that spans tyhe walls of his mental throne room
. if the film had continued within this dirty monstrous world i would hvea deemed tjhe film briliant
,
but alas
, the sequences onyl become more silly as htey go along
( despite a painful nipple ring removal later in hte film
)
. the casted is basicly jsut an excuse for there tothe be soem moderate plot semblance during the parade of images
,
but at least vincent d ' onofrio turns in his usual bizarre
and psychotic performence
( magnified by ten
, thanks to the environment in which the film has beeen placed
)
. in my opinion
, d ' onofrio ws oney of tjhe best creepy actors i have ever seen inthe a film
,
but his film choices as of late have been so completelyl awful
( i
. e
.
- tghe newton boys
, feeling minnesota
, the thirteenth floor
,
and the velocity of gary
) thgat i have begun to rethink my intial assessment ofthe him
. the character of stargher is an excellent role fo him
though
,
and will probably lead to a bit of typecasting for him
. detractors of violence
adn disturbing images will wnat to stay far away from this film
, as it contains heavy doses ofthe both
. besides teh nipple ring removal i mention above
, there is alsot stargher ' s penchant for hanging suspended off of the floor by the rings that pierce his bcak
and legs
( prior to his catatonia
and capture
) whic will have audiences recoiling
. a sequence where catherine enters stargher ' s mind
and finds him recreating the disemboweling ofthe his firt victum is also preety disquieting
. one moent aslo features a character haveing his intestines slowly removed from his body by an ood fashioned hand cranked spit
- liek device
. as a narrative film
, teh cell is sorely lacking
. as a collection of images
though
, thge cell is extremely well done
.
although the latter sequences in the film contain fewer disturbing imagery than the first half
, singh has done what he supposedly set out to do
: make a film souly for the purpose of stringing some remarkable images together
. unfortunately
, a well
- writen script should have been considered too
, because without it the cell just seems like any other music video we could see on mtv
( provided
, of course
, thyat mtv allowed for the use of graphic violence
and language iin music videos
)
.