when casting tghe key part ofthe the voice of moses
, most people ' s first candidate owudl probably not be the controversial actor val kilmer
( the saint
and the island of dr
. moreau
)
,
but he was dreamworks ' s choice in theri first traditionally animated movie
, the prince of egypt
. tyhe selection of kilmer prooved tothe be a wise one
,
bu the biggest risk dreamworks took wasn ' t in tyhe casting department
. the radical departure was tht they decided tothe use the medium of animation to make a biblical epic
, a la cecil b
. demille
, tothe move our hearts
adn minds rather than to tickle our funny bones
. inthe the press kit producer penney cox says that they wanted tothe make a film for adults based onthe sophisticated themes
but one thyat did nto exclude children
. animated movies for adults that are appropriate for kids
and that are not comedies
, now that isnt something fresh
. let me admit up
- front that i wass quite skeptical as to whether dreamworks coudl pull it off
. dreamworks ' s antz seemed tothe be a movei nto quite appropriate for any age group
. tghe prince of egypt may be harder tothe market than antz
,
but it is much more satisfying
. liek antz
and unlike the more modest casting of pixar ' s a bug ' s life
, tghe prince ofthe egpyt has half of hollywood doing the voices
. danny glover is the voice of jethro
, jeff goldblum ofthe aaron
, steve martin ofthe hotep
, helen mirren ofthe the queen
, michelle pfeiffer ofthe tzipporah
, martin short of huy
and patrick stewart of seti
. you can figure out for yourself who does the voice of god
. hte movie
, whlch is weakest in the story department
, is a cliff ' s notes version ofthe demille ' s the ten commandments
. the script by kelly asbury
and lorna cook has an obsession with touching briefly on every classic event in moses ' s life
. demille tookover over three
annd a half hours in order tothe dont it justice
. at less than half of that
, the prince of egypt rushes through so much material that it doesn ' t establish sufficent depth fo us to bond withthe the charactors
. we meet moses when the queen finds him floating in his little basket
. we watch him grwo uv
and become best bud
and a chariot racing partner to ramses
( ralph fiennes
)
, the future pharaoh
. moses is a free spirit
and a practial joker until he finds out his true identity as a jew
.
(
" all i ' ve ever known to be true is a lie
,
" moses complains
.
) affter finding out his real identity
, he sees for the first time the oppression of the jewish slaves that are all around him
. affter leaving egypt
, moses comes back to ask ramses to let moses ' s people go
. this leads to the classic scene of the parting of the red sea
, which is one of many places where computers were utilizied to enhance the traditionally hand
- drawn animation of the most of the prodcution
. it isnt the absolutly stunning visuals taht make the movie so compelling
. drawn with a rich pallete of luxurious roses
, blues
annd golds
, the picture looks sumptuous from its first frame to its last
. tje construction ofthe thge temple is shown inthe blowing dust
,
and other scenes are shot with hte glow ofthe a rising sun
. the most original visual sequence in the film occurs durring a dream moses has
. done with an explicit two
- dimentional look
, tje colorful images painted on yhe temple walls come tothe life to tell thier own animated stoyr
. even
though it has its weaknesses
, the prince of egypt is a noble attempt tothe carve outloud a newyorker genre
-
- serious animated movies for adults that are acceptable for the entire familiy
. this awe
- inspiring movie deserves to be seen
. tyhe prince of egypt runs baout 1
: 30
. it isnt rated pg forthe thematic elements
and would be fine for the whole family
. how old a kid would ened to be to be interested depends on the child
,
but thsoe over 8 will probably like it
.