infront the grand scheme of mel gibson movies
, payback was better tahn conspiracy theery
,
but not as good as braveheart or lethal weapon
. in other words
, it ' s a decent couple ofthe huors ofthe entertainment
,
but 20 yersa from now if a htey compile a list of mel gibson ' s greatest hits
, payback probably won ' t be onthe it
. gibson plays a crook who gets double crossed by his partner after htey heist a payroll
. mel ' s partner needed the money to pay off a mob debt
. so he puts a cuple of bullets in mel
, leaving him for dead
,
and goes on to pay off his creditors
.
but
, mel isn ' t dead
( it would be a real short movei if he ws
)
adn he certainly isn ' t happy
. tothe make matters worse
, he wants his money back
adn is willing to go to any lengths to accomplish this feat
. his ex partner has already used it to pay off the mobsters
, so mel goes after the mob to git it back
. payback is oftenly a very violent film
. tothe its credit
, there are a few scenes that coudl have beeen vyer graphic
,
but the directer
( i ' m not sure which one
-
- more about that in a second
) made the choice to let yhe audience use their immagination instead ofthe subjecting us to the usual gratuitous gore found in many films
. the film appears a bited disjointed infact places
, which is understandable considering producer
/ star gibson wasn ' t thrilled with how thte film turned outloud
and wnated parts of it re
- shot
. whn the directer refused
, another noe was brought in to do yhe re
- shoot
. so as a result while yhe fianl product is apparently better than the original
(
although personally i would love to see the original verzion for comparisons sake
) it does get a bited of a choppy feel to it towards the end
. it ' s always tough tothe amke a film where the main character is a villin
, unless that person has some redeeming qualities
. in this case
, gibson ' s character has faw reedeming qualities
.
bu hey
, its mel
, so even when he isnt killing peopel iin cold blood we are still rooting for him
. my guess is thta if that you put some other johnny bananas acto in tihs role
, the audience woudl not be quite as responsive
. gibson is gibson
, whether he is playing a sucidial cop or a stone cold killer
, he does a ogod job
. he almost guarantees tht no marter what else happens inspite tje rest ofthe hte movei at least the audience is going tothe git oney good performance
. this time out mel is surrounded by a good supporting cast
, includng maria bello
( as his love interest
)
, william devane
and kris kristofferson
( as mod bosses
)
. the man who steals the show
and unfortunately doesn ' t have a real big part is james coburn
( as
yot another mobster
)
. if i had one big disappointment in tihs film
, it would be that coburn didn ' t have a bigger role
. in hte end
, payback is a fairly solid action thriller
, just not in quite teh smae league as some of mel gibson ' s other work
.