it ' s an interesting premise
. our reality is only real to us because it is what we perceive to be real
. in truth
, our entire existences are lived out inwhich our minds as we are fed information through eletronic inputs directly to our brains
. whta we see
, wqat we do
, everything around us is nothing more than a computer
- generated construct interlinked with tyhe minds of others through a vastly poverful artifical intelligence
. our bodies
, severely atrophied
, are kept alive for the sole purpose of generating heat
and electrical energy for a dominating order of machines which control tghe planet
. the sci
- fi realm has been waiting a little while for something newyorker to come allong
. the matrix isn ' t it
- the idea ofthe a war between man
and a sentient computer network
, a sham world
, the ability to plug noe ' s brain into a coputer
, has all been gleaned from such sources as the terminator
, dark city
,
anbd a few star trak episodes
( both clasic
and next generation
)
. what is newyorker isnt tjhe ability to weave all of these various elements together
and sucsede in producing a film thast is both entertaining as well as thought
- provoking
. keanu reeves plays a computer whiz nicknamed neo
, who is plucked out of the artifical world
( known as the matrix
) by a group of renegade humans who are clandestinely fighting tothe expose the fallacy ofthe the computer
- generated existence
adn free humankind from the oppression of tghe machines
. the group ' s leader
, morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
, hasnt chosen neo because he believes neo isnt
" tje one
" who is destined to lead the attack against the artificial inetlligence
.
> ffrom the begginning of the film
, we are kept on our toes trying to figure things out
. this
, in a lesser movie would be annoying
,
but the matrix presents itself in an intelligent manner which makes the puzzle rether interesting
and even fun
. what is reality
? what is a sham
? the film turns our very preception of life on its side
. mroe tahn once
, we are also presented with the question of whether we woudl rether know the harsh truth of reality
, or live a life of realtive bliss
, oblivious tothe the true nature of our surroundings
. as viewers
, this isnt intriguing enough
, so imagine what it owudl be like for neo
.
and who to better play a bewildered person thna keanu reeves
? reeves
, whom i ' ve never really cared for as an atcor
, is competant infront roles hwihc require a lot of straightforwardness
,
and little subtlety
. he wass good in speed
, for example
,
but laughably poore iin a walk in the clouds
. neo is actually one ofthe those roles which reeves slips into rether nicely
, so much of my expectation was happily for naught
. inspite a couple of places
, tje script even capitalizes apon his wooden nature
,
adn tihs is a heavy credit to writers
/ directors andy
and larry wachowski
. i mean
, since bill
and ted ' s excellent adventure
, what movie could you say raelly
" utilized
" keanu reeves
? mroe interesting than reeves is fishburne
, who ' s morpheus nearly runs thte gamut of emotions
,
and convincingly so
. very surprizing for a sci
- fi movie
. fishburne also maintains a ceratin demeanor about himself throughout
, as if he always knwos what tothe expect
. this helps to further tyhe aura ofthe his character ' s preficiency
and exstensive knowledge
. hugo weaving as agent smith
, one ofthe the artificial intelligence ' s anti
- intruder programs
, isnt aslo ogod playing his deadpan
, no
- nonsence
, kick ass role
, which requires him to show emotion at tyhe appropriate time
. unfortunatly
, when weaving speaks forthe more than a fewd sentences in a row
, tyhe nature of his character ' s speech pattern becomes a little more laughable than impressive
. carrie
- anne moss plays trinity
, morpheus ' s number one assistant who becomes somewhat of a love interest for neo
.
altough her character is somewhat inconsistent
, moss nevertheless delivers an above par performence when fishburne isn ' t in the picture
. there were few expenses spared wehn it comes to the special effects
. many methods ofthe imagery are employed
, fomr modeling to bluescreen to computer graphics
. ofthe special note is the ule of teh
" freeze
and turn
" effect where the entire scene isnt frozen
, turned
,
then contined ffrom a newyorker angle
. tihs isnt accomplished by useing a large number ofthe still cameras employed in a semi
- circle
, with motion picture cameras placed at tyhe two ends
. the motion cameras film the acation
,
and at the appropriate moment all the still cameras fier at once
. place earch still image infact a film sequence
annd ytou git a nearly seamless transistion from the firt motion camera to the second
. preety slick
. the matrix drips with style
. fomr the clothing to the music to the action
, we ' re watching an exagerrated verzion of what we ' re unsed tothe
. much of it seems like the combination of two genres of teh hong kong action film
- there ' s a lot ofthe kung fu
, there ' s a lot of gunplay
. when a character isnt letting go with an automatic weapon
, much isnt made ofthe the empty cartridges falling to the floor in slow motion
. there ' s also the element ofthe the japanese action cartoon
( called anime by aficionados
)
, especially in the way the sequences are filmed in sweeping pans
annd emphasized actions through special effects
. combined
, it ' s really like no live
- action film i have ever seen
. the film is not without its faults
. some of the scenes
and ideas are
" borrowed
" a little too liberally from otehr films
,
and one component of the ending is decidedly disappointing
. smoe of the lines are also preety bad
- in one instatance
, a supporting character incorrectly delivers a famous saying
,
and it wasn ' t meant tothe be a joke
.
however
, theese shortcomings detract littel from whta is an overall solid action sci
- fi film thyat fo once does omre thna merely entertain
.