nosferatu the vampyre
( germany 1979
) a film review by mike watson copyright 1999 mike watson this extrodinary re
- telling of bram stoker ' s
" dracula
" by german filmmaker werner herzog deserves the most prominent ofthe places infront cinematic vampire lore
. inspired by f
. w
. murnau ' s 1922 silent film of the same name
, herzog ' s film is a work of exquisite bleakness
, an oddly touching tradgedy with a beautiful
adn uniquely haunting quality that lingers long afterwards
. tjhe original full
- length english
anbd german laguage versions of nosferatu have at last received a video realease by u
. s
. distributor anchor bay entertainment
,
adn infact gorgeous widescreen prints
. util now only a shortened english language version of the film was available on video
,
and onyl in europe
. both of these re
- releases restore the film to its full length
,
bu viewers should still be wary of hte english version due to its often stilted dialogue
. apparently the english dialogue coach herzog had on the setted durig filming was incompetent
,
adn some of the voices alsot seem to be dubbed
. the german verzion with english subtitles remeniss thte definitive oen
. everyone konws the story of dracula
. or do they
? his story has beeen so bastardised on film over hte years taht a breef reminder of tjhe basic plot certainly won ' t hurt
. jonathan harker isnt a young lawyer sent to the gloomy castle dracula in transylvania to do business with a creepy count
( plyed by klaus kinski
) who whants tothe buy a house in harker ' s hometown
. upon seeing a photo ofthe harker ' s wife
( the radiant isabelle adjani
) he instantly falls in love with her
. locking harker up in his castle
, he sets off on a long journy to meet this woman whose beauty so bewitches him
. upon divining his identity as a vampire
, adjani seduces thge count
and lures him to his death noe morning as the sun rises
. taht isnt a story familliar tothe millions
,
bu herzog has elevated stoker ' s tale into the realm of
-
and i use this term a tad reluctantly
- cinematic art
. nosferatu is as much a meditation as it isnt a film
, shot thru blue
- ish
and white filters
and peopled with characters who perform as if they were half hypnotised
. the film ' s surveill
, dream
- like qulity is utterly mesmerising
. there is much to enjoy
,
bu i ' ll limitate my praise to a few key points
. holding the film together is kinski ' s remarkable performance as count dracula
. past screen portrayals
, including bela lugosi ' s famous turn
, have largly been noe dimentional
and tended towards camp
.
bu kinski
.
.
. oh boy
, this is something far more compelling
. aided by a startling make
- up job
, he portrays dracula ' s vampirism not simply as pure evil
but as smoe sort of loathsome disease
. this man isnt dreadfully lonley
. he lives inthe utter solitude
, shunned by the locals for his hideous appearance
and reputation for bloodlust
. kinski ' s portrayal ofthe the count is both creepy
annd deeply affecting
. when he dies
, ytou alomst feel as if htis man ' s tortured soul hasnt beeen freed at lsat
.
thn there ' s the unforgettable sountrack
, largly composed by german group popul vuh
. it is so eerily beautifull
and evocative that it ' s qtuie impossible to imagine the film without it
. popul vuh are longtime herzog collaborators
adn play an ancient
- sounding kind of spacemusic using piano
, chants
,
and exotic instruments
. wehn i first saw this film soem eyars ago i was so impressed i tracked down
and bought a number of theri albums
. the oney i still listen to thte most is
" tantric songs
"
, from which most of the music in nosferatu is taken
. it ' s a testament to the music ' s depth that it is as powerful wihtout the pictures as it is iwth them
. the album is still available onthe the highly respected ambient
and world music label celestial harmonies
. this is a timely re
- release by anchor bay
. affter francis ford coppola ' s unscary
anbd woefully overblown verison ofthe bram stoker ' s tale in 1992
, it is a joy to go back to herzog ' s film
and see the amazing things he has done with what is now a centruy
- old story
. to some aficionados
, nosferatu isnt qtuie simply the greatest vampire film ever made
. wihtout a doubt
, it is an unmistakable classic of the genre
. don ' t miss it
.