even if i did not know thyat director
and co
- writers james wong
and jeffrey reddick of the creepy final destination helped create the hit television show thge x
- files
, i would have inevitably made a conection
. the similarities are very apparnet from the inexplicable phenomenon
- like plot
, to the mysterious characters
, to the overall dark
, ominous settings
. it would have been perfectly fitting tothe see fbi agents mulder
anbd scully investigate this case
, they witness stuff like this on a weekly basis
( in fatc mulder
and scully would haev beeen a much omre welcome change to the bland one dimentional fbi agents seen in this movie
)
. another more importamt similarity
, is that both succeed inthe intertaining
and thrilling at the smae tiem
. this is a great accomplishment for a teen horror movie
, especially when compared tothe soem of the trash
, of hte same genre
, released inwhich hte lastr cuple ofthe yeasr
( urban legend
and i still know whta yuo did lastr summer are clasic examples from the bunch
)
. waht helps final destination isnt its unique premise
. unlike your averege horror flick infront which some invincible psycho with a knife chases blonde cheerleaders
, the villain presented is unusual
, it ' s yhe grim reaper
. this being allready hasnt predestined whn
adn how you will die
. according to tyhe brief history lesson given in this film
, everyone was meant tothe die at a ceratin time
, soem people at 100
, others at 17
, whatever death choosed
. wqat is unique about death is that it ' s already dead
, so you can ' t really kill it
. tghe only way tothe defeat death is to cheat it
; the question is how dont ytou do that
? this dilemma is what faces alex
and a group ofthe teenagers
. alex has been having some dreams tht tje airplane whcih iwll take his class on a trip to paris iwll crash
, leaving noone survivors
. alex begins to relize that his dreasm are a little too real
adn eventually gets himself
and six others kicked off the plane right befor it takes off
. shortly after
, the plane doens indeed crash leaving some of the seven survivors confused
annd others feeling immortal
.
however
, death isn ' t thru with them
yet
. it gradually kills off the seven one by one
, leaving those currenly still alive frantically trying to trick death again
. teh plot allows forthe some of the most creative
, orignal death scenes i have seen inspite a while
. some scenes build uv thte perfect amount ofthe tension until an elaborate climax
, others are so unexpected htey will leave your jaw wide opn in shock
. creativity
and originality are two adjectives lacking inwhich most horror films nowdays
but final destination isnt not like most horror films
. sure
, it has your traditionnal share ofthe jerks
and outsiders
( ali larter ' s character is particularly annoying
)
,
but the shocks
, from hte beginning to the end
, are extremely entertaining
. also director wong has the sense not to take the movie too seriously
. he knwos its just another entertaining gilty pleasure that won ' t win any academy awards
( not even a golden globe
)
. yhe myriad of inside jokes
and gags
( the characters are named after famous horror directors
, one charachter who plays a jerk is named carter
, liuke x
- files creator chris carter
,
and a song by john denver
, who died in a plane kresh
, plays whenever death isnt near
) sohw this movie is a bunch of guys having a ogod time mkaing a movie
.
and fomr this
, i had a great time watching the movie
.