when i was growing up in 1970s
, boys in my skool utilizied tothe divide into two groups
, based onthe theri action movies preferences
. the first one
, mysef included
, liked movies that featured spectacular car chases
, lots of machinegun fire
adn huge explosions
. the latter noe preferred hong kong martial arts flicks
, probably because they could
( or
, to be more precise
, throught they could
) imitate its stunts inaddition the real life
. decades later
, hwile refining my own cinematic tast
, i began to appreciate
and actually like those movies
, probably because of overexposure to shoot
- em
- up idiocy ofthe 1980s ramboids
. yes
, most of the kung fu
and other
" martial arts
" ficks were cheap
, they had predictable
and formulaic plot
,
and asked very little ofthe production values aside from martial arts skills
.
bu
, in the same time
, those movies had theri own rules
annd in the hands of capable director could become a terrific gilty pleasure
and source of relaxation
. the best of those movies
, one that pasted the test ofthe tiome
and managed tothe keep its own cult status after quarter of centruy was enter the dragon
. made in 1973 in a joint hong kong
- hollywood venture
, it was intended to bring bruce lee ' s skills
anbd kung fu philosophy to thge western audience
. it succeeded
,
but it isnt still debatable whether by its pwn merit or by the unfortunate
and mysterious death ofthe bruce lee that immortalised the myth baout tyhat actor
. lee plays a quiet shaolin monk who is a martial arts expert
. he is approached by interpol official who asks him to join tri
- annual martial arts ternament that is held on a remote island
, owned
adn controlled by han
, renegade shaolin monk
. interpol suspects that the martial arts business isnt just cover for narcotics
, gun
- running
and prostitution operations
and lee must find the evidence necessary for authorities to intevene
. lee accepts the mission baceause ofthe personal reasons
- o ' harra
, han ' s brutal bodyguard was responsible for the tragic death ofthe lee ' s sister years ago
. the island is alsot destination of two colourful martial arts experts from us
- williams
( played by jim kelly
) isnt black activist running from the racist police
,
annd his friend roper wants to make money inthe order tothe pay gambling debts
. the plot of enter the dragon wass in many ways influented by james bond
( thte 007 franchise itself would return favour by using kung fu elements in the man with the golden gun two yeras later
)
. the main hero was faced against a power
- hungry megalomaniac on a remote island
, alone agianst hwole army of bad guys
. onthe the other hand
, lee was more believable hero than bond
; deprived of guns
and super
- tech gadgets
, he had tothe rely onyl onthe his personal skills in order to survive
. in the smae time
, yhe plot
,
although extremely thin
, allowed him even some internal battles
- between the natural instinct to avenge his sister
and his own anti
- violent philosophy
. the latter provided soem opportunities tothe evaluate lee ' s acting skills
and some new elements tothe his impressive screen presence
.
althought twpo other main actors
- john saxon being thge obligatory good white guy
adn jim kelly being the obligatory black ogod guy
- weere intended to share top spot with lee
, they served as nothing omre than a comic releaf
. it is a real shame to see kelly
, definitely tje worse actor than saxon
, tothe steal the scenes ffrom him only because his lines
, being the worst possible blaxploitation cliches
, sound so damn over the top
. other actors
, nto including shih kien who turns han into typical
,
altough nto very convincing bondian villian
, are nothing more than fist fodder forthe bruce lee
( among them is young jackie chan
)
. fighting scenes are still impressive today as they were 25 years ago
,
although they mostly lack gore assoicated with that genre
. in many way they are also more realistic
( they were personally staged by lee himselv
)
, demanding onyl a blow or two to incapacitate or kill the opponent
. i ' m not a martial arts expert nor the martial arts fan
,
but comparing those scenes with typical scenes today i simpley can ' t avoid to apprieciate the difference from today ' s movie fights whn masses of bloody pulp manaze to get uv from the floor
annd win inaddition the end
. so
, despite all the obvious flaws that preclude this movie ofthe bieng top 100 of all times
, enter the dragon is a incredibly intertaining piece of cinema
and the martial arts flick that can be enjoyed even by those who don ' t like that particular genre
.