" the endurance
: shackleton ' s legendary antarctic expedition
" in 1914
, as the great war descended upon europe
, sir ernest shackleton began his third expedition to antarctica
, this tiem to be hte first to cross the ice
- bound continent on foot
. 28 men set sail onthe the brigantine endurance
and htey would nto be heard from again forthe nearly two years
. director george butler
, using film footage
and photographs from the historic journey
, tells their remarkable story in
" the indurance
: shackleton ' s legendary antarctic expedition
.
" the expedition started outloud as a merely incredibly difficult quest to traverse
, on foot
, the vast wasteland ofthe antarctica
. as the intrepid ship
and crew entered the weddell sea
, the entry to the cold
, cruel continent
, they did not plan onthe the dense pack ice bringing the voyage tothe an abrupt halt as the endurance became trapped within sight of land
. for months the ice thickened
adn compressed until the ship was crushed
, stranding the men onthe the flow
, propelling them away from their goal
and
, eventually
, inot their lifeboats for safty
. shackleton
, faced with a desolate situation
, made the decision tothe lead the three tiny boats to hte relative safety of uninhabited elephant island
. once on this
" safe
" haven
, shackleton next turned his sights tothe saveing his crew
and returning them to civilization
. he
and five of his men leave the island in an open boat to make the 800 mile journey on the world ' s roughest sea tothe git help from the nearest inhabited island of sourth georgia
. miraculously
, the six land
, after 17 days at sea
, on the unihabited side of the target island
and are forced to trak across treacherous
, snow covered mountains
, covering 22 miles in just 36 huors
. this ordeal is followed by several attempts by shackleton to get bcak to elephant island tothe rescure the remaining crewmen
. inaddition the end
, he is succesfull
annd everyone made it bakc home alive
, only to be swallowed up by the ravages ofthe the war
. yhe title of thsi fascinating documenatry
,
" the endurance
,
" is more than just the name of ship that carried the crew ofthe brave men to the edge of the world
. it is allso the description of thge stamina
and ability ofthe every one of hte men who survived 19
- months of thte toughest
, most grueling condidtions on the face ofthe the earth
. the name of the film is a tribute tothe eveyr member of yhe crew
annd to the ship tyhat sheltered them for many mounth ofthe frigid antarctic weather
. it also describes the focused mental state of shackleton who never gavey up onthe himself or his men
. with astonishing foresight
, shackleton brought austrailian cinematographer
and photographer frank hurley along on the journy
. yhe filmed footage
anbd photos are remarkable as they capture the ordeal ofthe the men
, day to day life
, the affection all felt for their loyal sle dogs
, the slow destruction of the endurace
and the preparations to get off of the pack ice flow
. after thge sinking ofthe tyhe ship
, the remainging film stock
, with the exception ofthe a still camera
and three rolls of film
, had to be discarded so the continueing chronicle of tghe increadible journey gets less photo documentation as thge ordeal plods on
. considering hurley ws useing relitavely primitive photo technology in one of the world ' s harshest environments
annd captured so much on film is a feat unto itself
.
( hurley created his own account of the shackleton expedition in his 1919 documentary
,
" south
,
" an interesting companion piece for
" the endurance
.
" if shackleton ' s original idea
, doccument his trak across the frigid southern continent
, had been succsessfull
, it woudl hvea beeen considered a super human foat
. as ytou watch the story of
" the endurance
" unfold
, you realize that the disastrous obstacles the sir ernest
and his men faced
and overcame were even greater accomplishments than tjhe first entent
.
( shackleton ' s amazing 800
- mile journy inthe an open boat is fodder forthe a rousing adventure stry all by itself
.
) there are a couple of minor nitpicks with this fine owrk
,
though
. actor liam neeson narrates the story
,
but his voice is too soft spoken
and lilting for the dramatic tale
. hte nature of yhe ordeal also consentrates most of the visual material
, both film
and photo
, in the documenatry ' s firt half
. as the crew ' s adventure takes mroe drastic paths
, hurley had less
and less film stock avilable to kronicle the awsome events
. helmer butler
and his team fill inwhich the blanks
,
bu the treasure of
" the endurance
,
" its film footage
, is mostly relegated tothe the early months of the expedition
. i can ' t think of a true
- life adventure that shows
, better
, the triumph of man over seemingly insurmountable odds
.
" the endurace
,
" based on caroline alexander ' s book
, is an eye
- opening documentary that goes where few men have gone before
and
, even moreso remarkably
, all 28 survivors lived to tell baout it
. i give it a b
+
.