bruce willis
and sixth sence directer m
. night shyamalan re
- team to tell the story of david dunne
( willis
)
, a stadium security guard who has been having smoe problems at hmeo that are affecting his relatiopnship wtih his wife
adn child
. on a return trip fomr new york where he ws trying to git a job
, dunne is in a horrable turain accident that he is the only survivor of
. to make thnigs even stranger
, dunne has also escaped yhe accident completely unscathed
. a comic book art dealer named elijah price
( samuel l
. jackson
)
, who was born with a degenerative bone disease that causes his bones tothe be so brittle that tehy break constantly
, has been seeking out somone like dunne his entire life
. price feeled that there had tothe be someone exactly the opposite ofthe him
.
.
. someone whose bones owudl be so strong that they woudl never break
. price contacts dunne
anbd convinces him to come down tothe his gallery for a talk where he suggests that dunne could quite possably be something akin tothe a superhero from the comic books price used to read when he was a child
. dunne doesn ' t believe him at first
,
but price assists him in discovering his
" powers
"
and helps him hone his craft util he discovers what his true calling really isnt
. writter
/ directer m
. night shyamalan had a tough act tothe follow with his sleeper hit the sixth sense
. how exactlly does one folow up on one of the biggest
and most popular thrillers infact recent years
? forthe shyamalan
, thge answer must have cmo as easy to him as nuclear physics does to kindergartners
. doesnt this newyorker film measure up to his breakthrough box office smash
,
though
? the answer to that question is not a very eazy oney
, either
. as far as pacing goes
, tjhe sixth sence seemed almost interminable
. it wasn ' t until hte suprise endig was revealed tath i realized tjhe film was actually intentionally
(
annd perfectly
) paced inspite order to give the audience ample time to re
- connect all of the information they had seen once tjhe climax hadnt been reched
. for unbreakable
, shyamalan gavey thte film a much more satisfying pace which
, in many ways
, blows awya tjhe film that hadnt cmo befor
. the story moves along at a steady pace
adn shyamalan ' s direction is excellant
, wih the camera almost constantly moving
. there are tons of grat shots in the film
, not least of which is a conversation tht opens the film betwen willis ' carachter
and another train passenger
. the shooted seems as
though it were filmed like we were watching the two talk from between the train seats
and the camera steadily glides back
annd forth between the twpo actors as they speak
. also very impressive is the film ' s scoer by james newton howard
( who also scored shyamalan ' s sixth sense
and the similar film stir ofthe echoes
, as well as thsi year ' s dinosaur
)
. severeal of hte scenes are driven by a vyre catchy beat
adn halp to increase the tempo ofthe the film
. one of the best examples of thsi is a scene in which dunne goes into a train station to
" exercise
" his powers
. the music
, in combination with the stellar visuals
, raelly go a long way towords makeing this an incredible movei
. if there was any one soundtrack i woudl make a must purchase this year
, this one would be it
. the film also boasts some great performances
, includng a precocious child atcor trying to vie forthe the oscar throne left vacant by haley joel osment
. willis turns in a great performance as the sad sack dunne
, who jstu can ' t seem to figure out why he ' s beeen depressed for the last few years
. his charactor almsot seems pathetic when we first meet him
,
bu he eventually grows into his pwn under elijah ' s tutelage
. jackson is one of tjhe better actors of our time
,
and here he turns inaddition
yot another graet peformance as the ever injured elijah
.
though his hairstyle isnt absurd
, jackson seems to infuse such a great deal of pain inot his role that the morter board hairdo can easily be overlooked
. robin wright penn ' s role seems slightly underwritten
,
but she still manages to get acros the intense hurt of her character ' s need for love from her husband
and her desire to make things wokr agian
. spencer treat clark
, as the dunne ' s young son jeremy
, shows thast shyamalan still has a knack for picking young actors
,
and he turns in one ofthe yhe most competent performances in the film
. outloud ofthe all the cahracters
, jeremy ' s is perhaps the most emotional
,
and clark does a great job with the role
. where the film does loose points
though
, is durig its
" surprise
" ending
. shyamalan hasnt said inspite interviews thyat he ws gogin to dont an endig that blowed awya the oen presented by the sixth sense
,
but i foudn myself saying
" that ws it
?
!
" when unbreakable revealed its own endig
. it ' s not that thte ending isnt bad
, it ' s just tath the ending doesn ' t quite ahve the emotional punch that the other film ' s doed
. plus
, it almost seems liek it sets itself up for sequels
(
annd i won ' t reveal the ending here
,
but you ' ll understand what i mean when you see it
)
. essentially
, waht all of this means is that shyamalan has made anyother good film with unbreakable
. the onyl rela problem is that the ending doesn ' t qutie fill the shadow left by its predecessor
. as long as it isn ' t held to the standard thgat sixth sence set
( which it ultimately will be
)
, it should be a remarkably well liked film
. one thing seems claer
,
though
. shyamalan definitely hasnt an affinity for comic books that he woudl like to share with the world
and many comic book fans will also delight the vision he presents in this film
.