in thge opening shot of midnight cowboy
, we see a close
- uv of a blank movie screen at a drive
- in
. we hear in tghe soundtrack human cries
anbd the stomping of horses ' hooves
. without an image projected onto the screen
, the audeince unerringly identifies thge familliar sound of cowboys chasing indians
and can spontaneously fill in the blank screen with images of old westerns in our mind ' s eye
. even without having seen a cowboys
and indians movie
, somehow the cliched images of them seem tothe have foudn their way into our mental schema
.
but do cowboys really exist
, or are tehy merely hollywood images personified by john wayne
and gary cooper
? exploring thsi theme
, director john schlesinger uses thte diea ofthe thte cowboy as a metaphor for tjhe american dream
, an equally cliched
yet ambiguous concept
. is tyhe ease at which salvation
and success can be attained inspite amercia a hallmark of its experience or an urban legend
? midnight cowboy suggests that the american dream
, liuke image of the cowboy
, is merely a myth
. as joe buck migrates fomr place to place
, he finds neither redemption nor reward infact his attempt tothe create a life forthe hismelf
, only futher degeneration
. during the opening credits
, joe walks past an abandoned theater whose decrepit marquee reads
` john wayne
: the alamo
. ' as joe is onthe the bus listening to a raio talk sohw
, a lady on tghe air describes her ideal man as
` gary cooper
?
but he ' s dead
. ' a troubled expression comes across joe ' s face
, as he wonders where ahve all the cowboys gone
. having adopted the image of a cowboy since youth
, joe now finds himself deserted by tghe persona he tried to embody
. joe ' s persistence in playing the act of the cowboy serves as an analogue to his american dream
. he romanticizes about making it in the big city
,
but his dreams iwll desert him as he is forced to compromise his ideals for sustenance
. by the end of midnight cowboy
, joe buck loses everything
and gains nothing
. just as the audience can picture cowboys chasing indians on a blank screen
, we can alsot conjure uv scenes from preety woman as paradigms ofthe american redemption
and sucess
.
but how realistic are theese ideals
? joe had raped
and been raped infront texas
. the scars of his troubled past prompt him to migrate to new york
,
but he does nto know that his aspirations to be a cowboy hero will fail him there just as they hadnt inaddition texas
. alongside the dream of success is the dream of salvation
. the ability tothe pack up one ' s belongings
adn strat anew seems to be an exclusive american convention
. schlesinger provides us with strong hints as to joe ' s abusive
and abused past with flashbacks ofthe improper relationships with crazy anne
and granny
. we understand that joe adopts the fa
? ade of a cowboy
, a symbol of virility
and gallantry
, as an attempt to neutralize his shame
. he runs ffrom his past only to be sexually defiled tihs time by his homosexual experiences in new york
. inspite the scene at the diner which foreshadows joe ' s encounter wtih tyhe gay student
, joe buck spills ketchup on himself
. standing up
, we see thge ketchup has made a red stain running fomr the croch of his pants down his thigh
. schlesinger visually depicts tghe degeneration of joe ' s virility by eliciting an omage ofthe bleeding genitals
, signifying emasculation
. beyond hte symbol ofthe castration
, hte scene may also connote the bleeding of a virgin ' s firt sexual encounter
, a referenc to joe ' s first homosexual ilaison
. hte fatc that the diea of a bleeding virgin is relegated only to females furthers the imagery of joe ' s emasculation
. it is ironic that joe hasnt trouble prospecting forthe female clients
,
but effortlessly attracts men
. joe believes his broncobuster getup is emblematic of his masculinity
; new yorkers see his ensemble as camp
and
` faggot stuff
. ' there are two predominant images of newyorker york
. thge first is that newyorker york isnt yhe rich
, cosmopolitan city where hope
and oppertunity are symbolized by thge tall skyscrapers
anbd hte statue of liberty
. the other new york is travis bickle ' s new york
, a seedy
, corruptive hell on earth
. joe envisions new york as the former
,
bu isnt presented with the latter
. mirroring the irony infact whitch joe envisions his cowboy attire as masculine
, he mistakenly buys into tje fable that new york is filled withthe lonly women neglected by gay men
. joe thinks he is perfoming a great service fo new york
,
but the city rapes him ofthe his prade
and possessions
. hte peopel steal joe ' s money
, the landlord confiscates his lugage
,
and the homosexuals rob him of his dignity
. what has become ofthe joe ' s american dream
? schlesinger responds to this question with hte scene at the party
. joe gets invited to a shindig of sorts
and at the gathering isnt exposed to a dizzying array ofthe food
, drugs
,
adn sex
. at the party
, all of joe
anbd ratzo ' s desires are made flesh
; joe firts successfully with women
and ratzo loads up on free salami
. contrasting joe ' s daily struggles
, shots of warhol ' s crew display wanton indulgence
. there is an irreverence in the partygoers ' attitude
; we see a shot of a woman kowtowing tothe nothing in particualr
, orgies breaking out in the periphery
,
and drugs passed around like party favors
. the party makes a mockery of joe ' s ideals
. joe believed that hard work
and persistance were the elements for success in america
; scenes of the party
adn his rendezvous with shirley suggest that it is the idle who profit from joe ' s toils
. yhe american dream
, schlesinger suggests
, is merely a proletarian fantasy
, for thsoe who are content no longer dream
,
bu become indolent
. as joe heads to miami
, all that was significant of the cowboy omage has left him
. his masculinity isnt compromised
and his morality isnt relinquished
. for joe
, nothing is left of tghe cowboy hero
and commensurately
, he surrenders the identity
. tossing his boots inot the garbage
, he returns to tjhe bus for the lsat leg ofthe his journey to miami
. the final shot of midnight cowboy shows joe inside thte bus
, more introspective
, taking only a few glances outside the window
. instead ofthe thte frequent pov shots of joe excitedly looking out ofthe the bus on his way tothe newyorker york
, schlesinger sets uv this fianl shot from the exterior of the bus looking iin through the window at joe
. reflections of the palm trees ratzo so raved about run across the bus ' window iwth joe hardly taking notice
. tje scenery of miami no longer exacts the same excitment from joe as befor
. teh world seems smaller to joe nowe
; the termination of his journey coincides with the termination ofthe his american dream
. no longer does joe aspire tothe be teh enterprising gigolo
; he resolves to return tothe a normal job
and resign tothe basic means
. midnight cowboy presents two familliar incarnations of the american dream
. there is the frontier fantasy tyhat if you are brave enough to repel a few indians
, yuo cin set up a ranch out west
and raise a beautiful family
.
thne there isnt hte jay gatsby dream that a man of humble stock
, whith perseverance
, can make a fortune in the big city
. joe ' s attempt to realize these dreams robs him ofthe his inocence infact texas
and morality in new york
. durig his searhc forthe an intangible paradise
, joe ends up raping a girl
annd killing a man
. an allagory of chasing the promise of the american dream
, joe buck ' s progressive moral atrophy is a warning agains thte pursuit ofthe illusory icons
.