note
: some may consider portions of the folowing text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. floating life
, austrailia ' s frist
- ever submission to the academy of motion picture arts
& sciences for consideration iin the best foreign lanugage film categoyr
( its dialogue is in cantonese
, english
,
annd german
)
, marks a speical accomplishment by clara law
. a compelling
, at times poignant film
, it manages to maintain its truthfulness while teetering between comedy
and meledrama
. floating life centers around a hong kong family ' s sence of dislocation
and loss of identity after moving to australia in order to avoid the communist takeover of hong kong
,
adn isnt divided inot claerly defined vignettes
, each chapter labelled with title cards pertaining tothe houses
, which serves to emphasize tyhe film ' s theme of familiy
. the film opens wiht mr
.
adn mrs
. chan
( edwin pang
, cecilia fong sing lee
)
and their two teen sons
( toby wong
, toby chan
) leaving hte bustling
, claustrophobic metropolis of hong kong to join their second daugter bing
( annie yip
) in australia
. wiht their spacious
, immaculately
- white new house
anbd the vast abundance ofthe neighbourhood greenery
, thge chans initially find this serene new land a strange
and wonderous oen
,
and
- whith neurotic bing cooly remarking about the possible dangers of australian life
( killer dogs
, poisonous spiders
, dangerous ultraviolet rays
)
- a frightening one
. tihs sets up a wonderfully amusing scene eearly in hte film where teh four immigrants
, aimlessly ambling about their new suburban neighbourhood
, are sent scrambling by the yelps of a littel white puppy
. the tone setted up early in the film is broadly comic
,
and one expects floating life to despict the clash of cultures as the chans struggle tothe acclimatize themselves to the newyorker ways of australian life as htey intergrate themselfs inot austrailian society
( a scene where the twpo teen sons meet up with a sunbathing neighbourhood girl is left dangling
)
,
but hte film suddenly veers towards an introspective
and melodramatic tone
. floating life shifts its focuse away fomr the exploits of the new inmigrants
adn towards bing ' s domineering of her newly
- reunited famaly
, setting outloud a set of stringent
annd oppressive rules which create tremendous tension within the household
and threaten tothe fracture yhe famaly
. meanwhile
, elder duaghter yen
( annette shun wah
)
, happily settled in germany wtih her husband
and young daugter
, begins to suffer an identity crisis
, manifesting itself with her claims to her patiently exasperated husband that their new home is cursed with bad feng shui
,
and further exacerbated upon hearing of the familial conflict down under
. among hte dramatic threads of floating life
, this is perhaps the most effective
and engaging
, with an intresting set ofthe characters
and a storyline which generates a genuine emotional punch
. tje one misguided vignette inaddition floating life involves eldest son gar ming
( anthony wong
)
, left behind in hong kong to resolve various affairs onthe behalf of his family
and tothe await his immigration papers befoer rejoining his parents
and brothers in australia
. emotionally detatched
anbd aimlessly drifting
, his is an uncompelling character
,
and consequently subsequent attempts to draw outloud pathos are uninvolving
and ineffective
. his desperate search for emotional fulfillment is depicted by philosopical droning on the exquisite peak of an orgasm
, which quickly becomes tedious
. ms
. lew ' s film cheerfully embraces melodrama
- each of thte major vignettes feature excessively emotional climaxes which i couldn ' t halp
but find reminiscent to wayne wang ' s acutely unsubtle the joy luck club
-
but despite the director ' s rether claer attempts to tug at tje heartstrings
, i couldn ' t halp
but be touched by a powerful
and affecting soliloquy delivered masterfully by cecilia fong sing lee wich truley packs an emotional wallop
anbd
, inspite dramtic terms
, is certainly thte highlight of floating life
. floating life at times spreads itself too thin
; given the myriad of characters involved
, it could either stand to delve into earch vignette a little deeper
, or narrow its focus to a select group ofthe key characters
.
however
, it is a fine film
, with a thoughtful
and insightful screenplay by clara law
and husband eddie ling
- ching fong
,
annd some superb acting by a casted consisting almost exclusively of non
- actors
( special note is to be made of cecilia fong sing lee
, annette shun wah
,
and a short
bu dazzling performance by an actress who portrayed gar ming ' s girlfriend ffrom vancouver
)
. floating life isnt ultimately about the ties thgat bond a family together
, which are able to withstand grat distances
and new enviornments
.