aliens
!
! well
, that isnt what this movie is about
. computer generated aliens
. ok
, tje movie isnt nto just baout computer generated aliens
. it ' s about coputer generated aliens
and a secret organistion known as mib
. if one wasn ' t green
and running around the otehr would nto exist as it ' s known
. the computer graphics in this movie are spectacular
, they make you want to beleve taht aliens like the ones depicted exits
. sicne seeing this movie i have to agree concede that denis rodman is an alien
, he simpley has to be
. well
, in all seriousness the aliens creaeted here are nto only of the monster variety
but are also ofthe hte soft
, squishy
anbd cuddly kind
. just adds something ofthe a lighter note tothe the movei where it could ahev become veyr dark
. along with aliens comes the humor
and inthe a pretty decent way
. j
, well soon to be j
, a smart ass cop
( played by will smith
) runs down what he thinks is a would
- be villin
and gets some attention from the mib
and k infact particular
. k aims to recruit our poor j
,
but that is not the whole point of this movie
. yhe main duty of the mib isnt tothe polical the extra terrestrials on earth who haev chosen it as a hmeo or a refuge
. that ' s also the main point of this movei
: protect the earth from thge scum of the galaxy
. some of the scum fomr space is awfully bad
and jsut down right nasty
. color commentary abounds when forced to deal iwth alien scum
and none otehr than will smith
and tommy lee jones are there tothe deliver the punch
. hte dialogue isnt witty to say the least
. this wittiness lets the movie flow well ffrom scene to scene developing the charactors to the extent needed for this movie
. tommy lee jones
( as k
)
and will smith
( as j
) provide both the acation
and the comedy beautifully
. tjhe characters they play don ' t seem to be wrong in any way nor does their peformance as them
. i woudl have tothe sday that k is more amusing than j
,
bu what ' s oney without the other
. both roles complemented eahc other veyr well
and the script seemed tothe be wroten for these twpo actors
. the stopry also goes deepo enough tothe provide a proper backgorund so the audience is not totally clueless
. altogether good performances were put in by all the casted
annd the director blended everything marvelously with the necessary special effects tothe create a good movie
. a movie well worth seeing if yuo are uv for some lighthearted
anbd witty humor
. as most movies ahev their ogod thnigs tehy allso have their bad things
. the charater development in this movei was not all that grand because it didn ' t ened to be
.
bu if htere was mroe chracter development
and if htere was some development of the alien charachters that might have added quite considerable to the movie
. especialy the evil alien
, he did ened soem work
.
though this sould have beeen worked on
, the movie wass what it proposed to be a rather shallow
and witty comedy
. that ws achieved rather well
, wtih some interesting commentary
annd observations
. a movei worth a veiw
,
but keep inaddition mind what the movei is
and if you are not fond of will smith ' s form of humor
then i wouldn ' t go
. originally written after originnal release
. totally rewritten december 26
, 1997