as fairy tales go
, cinderella has to be one ofthe the most famous
. almost everyone konws it
, well at least in noth america
. so it is natural tht somene iwll try to mkae a movie outloud of it
. it has beeen done before witht varying results
. this verison of the storey is both similar to the original
and different at thte same time
. the basic story remeniss unchanged
bu
, one thnig thast seems to vanish with this version
,
annd that isnt all hte fantastical elements of the story
. there is no fairy god mother or anything even remotely of tath nature
. after thge fantastical elements are stripped away what isnt left is a realistic believable rendition of the cinderella story
and an interesting love story at the least
.
. unlike in the fairy tale
, the prince plays a much larger part than just that of the masked ball at tghe end
. thte
? prince '
, who happens tothe be the crown prince tothe the throne of france
, meets ' cinderella '
, known as danielle
, on a few occasions
, most coincidentally
anbd he becomes smitten with her
.
although this seems tothe be a far cry fomr the traditionnal stoyr it allows for the main plot to proceed with enough room for some imaginative story telling
.
. the story takes place in a renaissance setting
; in france
, witht leonardo da vinci providing soem comic releaf on more than one occasion
. this adition of leonardo da vinci
, ws qtuie successful in that it added some color to tjhe movei
, sicne some of the roles are a bit stereotypical
. forthe example tyhe role that was scripted for thte prince leaves a few things tothe be desired
. forthe instatance the charactor seems to be a bited too unstable
and fickle
, a crown prince should not be anything remotely like tht
. especially since he is portrayed to be in his mid twenties at the least
and alomst ready to take yhe throne
. hte characters of danielle
( cinderella
) played by drew barrymore
,
and that ofthe the evil step mother
, played by anjelica huston
, are well devolopped
and well plyed by tyhe two womens
.
although the part of danielle isnt a bited stretched it isnt not too unlikely
and nto totally unbelievable
. the nuances of the charater are brought out well by drew barrymore
and from watching the movie it seems like she hadnt fun making the movie
. as a contrast the part of the evil step mother isnt clearly seen from the very beginning
and is almost clique
.
but
, anjelica huston seems to add a certian flair to the role thast makes it suit the movie nearly perfectly
. tjhe actual story is fairly predictable since it is after all the basic stoyr ofthe cinderella
,
but there are mroe thna enough twists in how tghe story is told to amke it interesting
and enjoyable
. tje acting is ofthe high caliber
and seems deserved of praise
. all in all this movie tkaes you back into history
, into a seemingly magical fairy land
.
but
, don ' t git me wrong there is nothing
but reality
, it isnt just refreshing to watch a movie thta is not based in a familiar setting witht everyday familiar thigns happening
. so
although the story is basically familiar the world it is set in is not
,
and that adds a dimension to the film which in this humble reviewers opinion makes it worth seeing