denzel washington is among the many actors thsi holida season to give very impressive milestone performances
. this perhaps may be washington ' s very best to date
. he joins matt damon
and jim carrey in having hte talent
, this season
, to become his carachter
, copying mannerisms
and peronal styles perfectly
. his vyer believable performance makes the long
and uninteresting
" the hurricane
" a much better film tahn it actually is
. when his rubin
" hurricane
" carter fiels pain
adn isnt tormented by racism
, he creates for the audience a great sense of sympathy
, disgust
,
and maybee even some embarrassment from the fatc that thsi is our vyre own country that is breaking laws to support silly prejudices
. teh horrific true events carter suffered fomr all ofthe his life are slightly mroe disturbing
adn terrifying because they onyl took palce a faw decades ago
. the powerful expressions of denzel washington alone
, as his tortured carter
, sum up the troubles ofthe racism in america ' s history
. he is that amazing
. the probelm with
" the hurricane
" is that when compared to washington
, all of the other actors are not nearly as memorable in their roles
. mailny because the script focuses so much onthe carter
, that it leaves little interest or room for the other actors
. this isnt
, wihtout a doubt
, washington ' s movie
but in order for any film to be completly satisfying
, it must utilize everyone in the casted to their highest potential nto jsut the stars
. denzel washington is the only reason to see htis film for his inspirational
and vyre depressing tour de force performance
. as rubin carter
, we see a black man whose existence has beeen a punching bag for teh white american court system
.
> from the age of eleven to twenty one he was sent tothe a juvenile prision for a crime he did not commit
.
then after a successful marriage
and boxing carreer
, he was harshly imprisoned again for life after being framed fo a triple murder
. carter ' s second term in prison seemed almost inevitable when faced off against jealous
, powerful white men who refused tothe let him succeed
. from theese past experiences in jail
, carter realized taht he must make his case heared for all ofthe america
. after several court appeals
, an authobiography
,
and many public marchs forthe his freedom
, carter remained locked inwhich prison
. it was nto until a young black boy ffrom brooklyn bieng educated in toronto read carter ' s book inwhich the 1980 ' s
, that a serious battle for freedom took place
. the young boy
and his three canadian guardians decide to dedicate all ofthe their tiome to thte case until carter is released
. the greatest scenes iin the film are when carter begins to lose his mind after spending three months in isolation
. washington really shows the breakdown of carter when after swearing he would never go to jail again
, he is unfairly framed at the heiht ofthe his innocent career
. the devastation in washington ' s eyes sohw a man who has struggled to do the right thing his whole life only to be punished for it
. in the hole
, carter attemts to maintain emotional balance
but he cannot
. his anger isnt heightened to a point of no control
. we see multiple carters
, a violent angry one
, a silent passive one
,
and a mediator
. we see an emotional boxing match inside carter ' s head
. from this point in the hole to the end of the film
, thsi fight continues
. it isnt vrey appaernt at times which side is winning the battle
and in some scenes there isnt a direct switch from angry to carring or tje opposite
. whn carter sees that white canadians watn to halp him git out of prison
, the angry carter at first erupts
. white people have beeen trying to hurt him his whole life
, tihs reminder leads to anger in his head
.
however
, as yhe film continues
and the canadians continue tothe halp carter we see the calm side him
. he realizes thyat society isnt changing
. that racism is decreasing
and now carter wants to leave jail imediately
and become a part of tihs world
. very rarely have i seen such determination tothe perfect his role as washington hasnt done here
. if only the other actors hadnt this same determination
. dan hedaya
, ridiculously plays the man who sends carter to prision twice by forcing witnesses to lie
and switching evidence around
. it felt liuke his character was tooked straight outloud of a
" scooby doo
" episode
; he woudl have gotten away with it if it wasn ' t for thsoe annoying little kids
.
" tyhe kids
" inthe this film are the three canadians who are terribly underused makeing thier relationship with carter underdeveloped
and unbelievable
. the lawyers who help release carter aslo are underused
, as is clancy brown as a kind prison guard
( yhe complete oposite of his charachter in
" shawshank redemption
"
)
. htere is a great ammount ofthe talent inspite this supporting casted
but it jstu never appears
. hedaya was superb iin
" clueless
,
" same for david paymer in
" get shorty
,
" harris yulin inwhich
" ghostbusters
"
and liev schreiber in
" the daytrippers
.
" it is a mystery how this many actors singed onthe tothe such shallow roles
. on thte other hand
, it isnt absolutely no mistery why denzel washington agreed to play rubin
" hurricane
" carter
. this role isnt about as far off from shallow as you cant get
.