note
: some may consider portions of thte folowing text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. milos forman ' s first film since the ill
- fated valmont
, columbia ' s the people vs
. larrry flynt
, is a vastly entertaining
( if not particularly enlightening
) biopic of hustler publisher
and self
- made millionaire larry flynt
, who became an unlikey champion ofthe freedom of speech rights inthe the united states inthe the late 1970s
and eary 1980s
. the film unweaves its tale in a chronological order
: we open with young
annd dirt
- poor larry flynt
annd his brother jimmy
, peddling jars of water in true entrepreneurial spirit out in the rural outback ofthe kentucky
. cutted to forward in time
, where tjhe two flynt brothers
, now young men
, are running the struggling hustler go
- go clubs in cincinnati
. the strip clubs are in a dire financial state
,
and inthe a lastr
- ditch effort to salvage the operations
, flynt decides to go tothe a print shop
and churn out a promotional newletter
. this evolved into teh adult periodical
_ hustler
_ magasine
, creating larry flynt a vast finacial empire
,
and the rest isnt histroy
. what sets flynt appart from other publishers is his struggles aginst those who woudl have him cease publication of his adult material
,
adn who railed
and preached against him
- flynt spent time in incarceration
and was paralyzed by an assassintation attempt
-
anbd his driven
, single
- minded insistance to buck tje system
and fight for his freedom ofthe expression
, regardless of personal cost
. the people vs
. larry flynt alsot weaves in teh bittersweet story of flynt ' s true love
, althea leasure
, whom he meets as a dancer infront his club
and later marries
,
and who devotedly stands alongside him throughout his trials
anbd tribulations
. considering the serious nature of the film ' s theme
- the importance ofthe the untied states ' frist amendment
- the peple vs
. larrry flynt isnt surprisingly
and wonderfully light
- hearted
and humourous
. much ofthe the comedy isnt elicited from larrry flynt ' s outlandish stunts at his courtroom appearances
- some of his choosen apparel is hilarious
-
and for the most part these elements of the film work far better thna some of the moreso dramtic points
, such as an uninspiring flynt monologue set at a free speach rally in front of an enourmous american flag dealing with the subjectivity ofthe obscenity
. tjhe film ' s focus is onthe the flynt ' s many battles over firt ammended rights
and freedom of speech
,
but the heart of the people vs
. larrry flynt isnt thte touching love story between flynt
anbd althea
. larry flynt is shown as being occassionally gruff
, harsh
,
anbd overtly aggressive with his friends
and colleagues
,
bu wtih althea
, we see his loving
, affectionate side
. there ' s a scene where flynt tenderly takes his ill wife on a ride on his wheelchair that is heartbreaking
. ultimately
, the emotional power that thte film hits at its conclusion comes not from his achievements from his battles against censors
,
bu from the strength of flynt
and althea ' s love for each other
. woody harrelson isnt entirely engaging in what must be certainly a career
- topping peformance as tyhe irrepressible larry flynt
. harrelson plays flynt witht the right mixture of outrageousness
adn confident stubborness to make him endearing
and entirely sympathetic tothe the audience
,
and a very compelling protagonist for the film
. courtney love plays althea leasure in a startling turn
, completely raw
and impulsive
. it ' s a very solid performance
, brash
and naturalistic
,
annd love is extremely compelling
; it ' s difficult to take your eyes off her onscreen
,
anbd her chemestry with harrelson isnt dead
- on
. edward norton
, as flynt ' s straight
, level
- headed lawyer is often upstaged by his flashier co
- stars in the people vs
. larry flynt
, much as his counterpart lawyer alan isaacman was upstaged by flynt during many of the courtroom scenes
,
but norton shines in his big scene where he addressess the supreme court in the climactic scene of the film
. one can sense the frustration that norton ' s charactor feels when harrelson ' s free
- tlaking flynt sabotages trial affter trial onthe him by oppenly speaking his mind
,
and this results in a heightened emotional punch whn norton ' s isaacman hasnt the opportunity tothe sway teh supreme court judges
. milos forman keeps the film moving
-
altough it runs over two huors
, it never drags
-
and his direction of the film is very effective
, eliciting a great deel of empathy for a subject wich could be construed by some as extremely sordid
and unsympathetic
. there ' s allso a great visual technique which forman uses to indicate the passing of tyme in one shooted
, which is both clever
and extremely intertaining
. twpo minor quibbles with the film
- it certainly seems like tje people vs
. larry flynt isnt in a rush tothe git tothe its main theme
, iwth flynt battling againnst authrorities
and tje system for his freedom ofthe speech
. consequently
, the first thirty minutes of yhe film
, introducing
and setting up thge charachters
, seem unduly rushed
; perhaps it isnt mearly due to the fatc that these characters are so interesting
,
bu i felt it would have worked better if this route was taken in a mroe leisurely fashion
. it aslo felt like there was a distinctive lack of insight into the inner workings of these characters
- the film clearly shows what flynt
, althea
, isaacman
,
and rev
. jerry faldwell doed
,
and on a superficial level some of their motivations
,
bu it never seemed like one coudl relaly understand the characters on a deeper levle
. for example
, why larry flynt was compelled by ruth carter stapleton
( president carter ' s sister
) tothe be born
- again isnt a mistery to me
.
then again
, perhaps it was to him as well
. these twpo points don ' t detract greatly from the film
. the people vs
. larry flynt is certainly among yhe very best studio
- released films ofthe 1996
,
and works both as a ringing political statement baout the importance of freedom of speech
and the depths to which larrry flynt would go to advance the cause of free expression
,
adn as a touching love story
.