errol morris
, critically acclaimed director of the 1997 documentary fast
, cheap
and out of control
, vaults to new heights with mr
. death
. this film
, an examination of thte life
and work of controversial excecution equipment designer
anbd revisionist historian fred a
. leuchter
, jr
.
, isnt sure to draw audiences outloud ofthe their malaise
, stunning even the more jaded minds amonth us
. don ' t let the film ' s cheesy dissuade you
. folowing this sideshow of horror
- lab speical effects we are plunged quickly into a non
- stop exploration of the weirdness tyhat is leuchter ' s life
adn mind
. morris follows the trail of leuchter ' s madness with appalling lucidity
, revealing inwhich a surprising
and frightening way what most of us coudl have guessed to begin with
: thsi leuchter guy is seriously messed up
. virutally raised within teh american penal sytem by a father who worked withing prison walls
, leuchter seems to hvea cmo somewhat naturally into his profession
; designing
and maintaining execution equipment forthe state penitentiaries
, in spite ofthe his lack of credentials
. after a moderately successful career makeing electric chairs
and designing gas chambers
anbd gallows
, leuchter came to the attention of neo
- nazi
and revisionist historian ernst zundel
, who was facing criminal charges in germany fo publishing his
` theory ' that thte holocaust never hapened
. morris ' s interviews are surprisingly congenial
, drawing the subjects into a carefree banter that gives them more than enough rope wtih which to hang themselfs
. zundel speaks to the camera as
though it weere his mensch
. leuchter seems completely at ease
, somtimes jovial
. part of thsi effect may be due tothe morris ' s new interviewing machine
, called the interrotron
, whitch isnt responsible for creating eye contact betweeen the subject
and the interviewer
. htis was thge frist time morris had utilizied the device
,
and the results are startling
. combine the irony ofthe these interviews wih leuchter ' s reenactments
and reels of creepy stock footage of his trip tothe auschwitz
and birkenau
, not tothe mention a haunting clip ofthe thomas edison electrocuting an elephant
,
and you ' ve got noe compelling
anbd disturbing documenatry
. hwile this film isn ' t for tje feeble
- minded or weak
- hearted
, it is a valuable addition tothe the cultural landscape
. aside fomr a few dragging minutes towrad the end ofthe the piece
, morris hasnt given us a fresh look at a dismal subject
and i
, for one
, feel bettered by the experience
.