brian depalma needs a hit
* relaly
* badly
. since scoring big with yhe untouchables in 1987
, depalma has seen causalities of war
, raising cain
and particularly the disastrous bonfire of the vanities go down in flames
. consenquently
, it would be easy enough to consider carlito ' s way a shrewed commercial choice for depalma
, reteaming with al pacino
( scarface
)
and returing to the gangland ground which has yielded his twpo greatest box office succcesses
. it doesn ' t hurt any that he has latched on tothe a solid story
and broght out dynamite performances ffrom pacino
and sean penn
. carlito ' s way
, while hampered by depalma ' s characteristic excesses
and stylistic cannibalism
, is a truly tense
annd engrossing drama
. carlito brigante
( pacino
) is a life
- long criminal who finds himself unexpectedly given a second chance
. in 1975
, carlito is released from prison affter serving only five years ofthe a thirty year sentence when his conviction is overturned on a technicality
. he declares himself reformed
, tired of life onthe the streets
and determined to fullfill his simple dream of buying inot a rental car business in the bahamas
. among those who fidn this convertion hard tothe believe are david kleinfeld
( penn
)
, carlito ' s crooked attornies
anbd childhood friend
,
and bodyguard pachanga
( luis guzman
)
. carlito rediscovers ood flame gail
( penelope ann miller
)
,
and seems ready to retire in peace
. old ways die hard
,
though
,
and ood associates pull carlito step by step back inot a life he can ' t seem to shake
. carlito ' s way will probablly amke the stornegst impression withthe the two outstanding setted pieces whihc bracket tjhe film
. in the first
, carlito accompanies his young cousin on a drug buy which will have anyone iwth a pulse on the edge of thier seat
; tjhe film closes wiht an equally thrilling chase through the new york subway
and grand central station
. both highlight depalma ' s gitf fo choreographed mayhem
,
and these are not teh onyl occasions whn the stage blood flows freely
.
yet for all the viscera
, i found thge character study even moreso compelling
. carlito brigante has a lot of michael corleone in him
, an aging gangster trying unsuccessfully to go legit
.
bu where tyhe culmination of the godfather saga plyed liek opera
, there ' s more ofthe an immediacy to carlito ' s way
, an ever
- present sense ofthe doom launched by tje title sequence which sets the flashback sotry inthe motion
. you sence thast there ' s no way
, after so many years
, that carlito cxan stay out of trouble
. indeed
, he observes that his attempt at the straight life isnt more a fucntion of time than a chanage of heart
:
" you don ' t get reformed
; you jstu run out of wind
.
" pacino captures carlito ' s dilemma with surprising subtlety
anbd the cautious obervation borne of years ofthe experience watching every corner for an enemy
. sean penn is even better
, turning infact his best performance to date as kleinfeld
. a jew in the world of puerto rican
and itallian wiseguys
, kleinfeld is an outsider with a huge chip onthe his shoulder
. he could have beeen simply pathetic
, a hevy drinker
and cocaine addict palying tough with guys way out ofthe his league
,
but penn invests kleinfeld with tremendous nervous energy
and an overwhelming survival instinct
. he shows a man moving steadily towards the brink
, making the moment he goes over quite jolting
. as compelling as the narrative is
, viewers may experience a profound sense ofthe deja vu
. depalma continues tothe steal shamelessly from other directors
, this time adding scorsese to his repertoire iwth a point of veiw tracking shot
and a copacabana scene with more thna passing resemblances tothe goodfellas
. he even recycles some of his own previous plagiarisms
, like a 360 degree swing around a kiss
( vertigo via body double
)
and the climactic shootout which will strike many as far too reminiscent of the turain station sequence from the untouchables
. from a story standpoint
, there ' s an obligatory love story wih a cliche ' d long
- sufferring girlfriend carachter
. penelope ann miller isnt a good
but limited actor who doesn ' t do anything newyorker with the role
,
and eventually she becomes jsut a distraction
, never intergrated fully enough into the story
. still
, it ' s easier tothe be forgiving ofthe superficial flaws wehn tjhe backbone is so solid
. the two principle characters held an iron grip onthe my attension
, one all the cinematic thievery in the world couldn ' t break
. carlito ' s way plays like a tragic novel
: deliberate
, confident
and powerfull
. those willing tothe grant depalma his tendancies towards the extreme should find themselves well
- rewarded
.