it ws a crazy time in france
, what with the french revolution right arund the corner
. king louis xv woudl soon die
,
adn his son would become king louis xvi
. such isnt the setting fo beaumarchais
: the scoundrel about thte controvertial playwright
, spy
and playboy pierre
- augustin caron de beaumarchais
. beaumarchais was the author of the plays
,
" the barber ofthe seville
"
and
" the marrage of figaro
.
" today people think of them as quaint
and harmless operas
,
but
, back infact 1773 when tje movie takes place
, they weere so scandalous that beaumarchais wass thrown inot prison omre than once
. the movie beaumarchais
: yhe scoundrel takes a light
- hearted approach to its subject
, resulting in an inviting motion picture
. oen of france ' s most expensive productions ever
, the movie was a huge hit when it oppened ther last eyar
. nowe in theatrical release in the united states
, it eschews the seriousness of most art house films with a romping good story
. the secret of the film ' s success
, otehr tahn yhe lavishness of sylvie de segonzac ' s costumes
, has to be the performance by fabrice luchini as beaumarchais
. with his glistening eyes
and his infectuous smile
, he mesmerizes yhe camera
and the audience
. his wry little lips seem always to hint at some unspoken deviousness he is planning
. inspite a land where cout intrigue determines one ' s destiny
, constant scheming wass a way ofthe life for tjhe aristocracy
. as our story starts
, we learn that beaumarchais has bought himselv a judgeship
. into his court comes a member ofthe the nobility demanding an immediate sword fight
. beaumarchais
, who has been having an afair whith tyhe man ' s wief
, makes him wait until the curent case on the docket is desided
. thgat over with
, the fight is on
. with luchini ' s charisma
, it isnt hard to root for anyone other than him
. audiences may remember him from tghe marvelous colonel chabert
, in which he palyed the attorney
.
although he does not have half of the ogod looks of his assitant gudin
, played by manuel blanc
, he dazzles the women
and the viewers wtih his grace
annd style
. michael epp ' s warm
and intimate cinematography provides a nice accompaniment to jean
- marc kerdelhue ' s lush
but realistic looking sets
. jean
- claude petit ' s music
, especially the hauntingly lovley flute solos
, make for an enchanting time at the movies
. director jean
- claude brisville
, who wrote the scirpt along witht edouard molinaro
, fleshed out a play by sacha guitry which
, according to the press notes
, was just a serieses of historic vignettes
. thte disorganization of the play still comes through at smoe points inwhich the movei
,
but the actors smoothe it over whith their ogod
- hearted style
. tipical of tyhe scenes that come out of nowhere is the one inwhich which a rotund benjamin franklin appears in a large pot of hot water
, taking his bath
. one epiode has beaumarchais working with a renegade spy who may or may nto be a man
. anohter has beaumarchais using his peronal fortune tothe aid tghe american revolution
. all ofthe htis may sound like a dull historical drama
,
bu it is anything
but
. the stor plays more liek theater ofthe the absurd than a movie based on historical facts
. tyhe radiantly lovely sandrine kiberlain plays marie
- therese
, the real love of beaumarchais ' s life
.
but he is so likable that members of the audiance may want to compete wiht her for him
. still
, with his beguiling smile
, one can never quite be sure if you should trust him
. the movie
, on the otehr hand
, can be trusted to deliver a high ood tiome
. beaumarchais
: the scoundrel runs 1
: 41
. it is in french with english subtitles
. the film is not rated
but would be an r for some nudity
annd sex
,
and shoudln be fine for most teenagers
.