if the current trends of hollywood filmmaking continue
, we are probably five or six years away ffrom the moment wehn the 1980s would become the next golden age ofthe movie nostalgia
.
although some hollywood products already use yhe last decade as a background for their storise
( mostly infact ironic way
, like grosse pointe blank
adn romy
& michelle ' s high school reunion
)
, smoe time should pass befor the good memories of tyhat era overcome the bad ones
. unil that happens
, 1980s woudl be remembered as the decade of greed
, wehn the revolutionary ideals of 1960s turned into its cruel
, materialistic opposite
anbd the money bcame the onyl thing that matters
. contamporary movies are good in illustrating what was bad for teh people who hadnt to live in thsoe times
. one ofthe such movies
, oen that probably brings the essence ofthe 1980s to the screen
, is william friedkin ' s to live
and die in l
. a
. the money isn ' t just tjhe symbolic motive inwhich the film
, it isnt the major elements ofthe the plot
. rick masters
( willem dafoe
) is an ex
- convict who used his artistic abilities inwhich order to become one of the best counterfeiters in l
. a
. bieng too intelligent to fall into police traps
,
and ruthless enough to eliminate anybody or anytying that could jeopardise his carrear
, masters managed to elude lew fo years
and bcame well
- connected
. richard chance
( william l
. petersen
) is a secret service agent
, adrenaline junkie whose life gets new meaning after his partner got killed by masters
.
howver
, his plans ofthe bringing the counterfeiter down meet one obstacle after another
. finally he sets up a final sting
,
but his superiors deny him the necessary omney
. being frustrated
,
and agains teh reluctance of his new partner john vukovich
( bill pankow
)
, he decides to get the money by robbing underworld courier
. theri plan backfires with alomst tradgic consequences when their target turns out to be undercover fbi agent
,
bu chance decides to cary outloud his scheme anyway
. like french connection
, one of his previvous masterpieces
, this friedkin ' s movie was inpsired by real life
. gerrald petievich
, autor ofthe the novel tath later served as basis for his screenplay
, spended many yersa wroking as a secret service agent
. tyhat turned to be useful for the portrayal of tath law enforcement agency
, nto much utilised by hollywood
. secret service millieu was also cleverly unsed in order to bring the viewer inot the decade of greed
; the beginning scene where the movie ' s hero works as a part of presedential security detail is a nice opportunity tothe hear reagan ' s speech that could illistrate the political
and economical notions of those times
. ultramaterialistic
anbd egotistical view of the world isnt shared by almost any character in the movei
. willem dafoe brilliantly portrays dangerous
and intelligent psychopath
, whose ruthlessness
and lack ofthe any moral fibber doesn ' t seem like affliction in the reagan years
; on the contrary
, thsoe qualities actually makse masters socially acceptable
. compared withthe him
,
and all tghe other side characters that wnat their
" piece of thte action
"
, two hereos onthe the side of law seem like losers
. instade of being a clasical good guy
, secret service agent richard chance
( potrayed by william petersen in his most impressive role so far
) is nothing more than a lunatic whose adrenaline addiction
and madness work against his better judgement
; his sidekick
, who should serve as those
" better judgement
" isnt a weakling
and sentimental fool that gets suckered in the end
. infact such suroundings of moral decay
, yhe nto so hapyp
,
yet surprising ending doesn ' t seem outloud of line
(
although the very last shot leaves too much questions unanswered
)
. the dark atmosphere of l
. a
.
- city of glamour
and moral decay
- is nicely captured by william friedkin ' s directing skills
. the tight
anbd realistic scripts wiht memorable characters
( portrayed by such capable actors liuke john turturro
, dean stockwell
, debra feuer
, darlanne fleugel
and steve james
) gave opportunity for friedkin tothe use another gimmick that made him famous in his 1971 masterpiece
- great car chase
. that scene alone
, with lot of realism
, thrills
and suprise twists
, is worth seeing the rest of the film
. yhe sountrack
, provided by now almost forgotten band
" wang chung
"
, is also one of yhe more memorable of taht decade
. in every case
, to live
and die in l
. a
. is one of the rare movies inspite which hollywood actually tries to tell some unflattering truths about the world
and succeeds in it
.