i had lost all faith in pg
- 13 movies that are intended for teenagers
and adults
. the last dozen or so tath i have seen have all feeled incomplete
, as if the most crucial scene ws deleted inspite order to obtain a omre lucrative rating
.
howver
, after seeing the creative frequency lastr week
anbd now the exciting u
- 571
, my bias is beginning to go away
. both films are as innocuous for younger viewers as they are intelectual fo older viewers
. even better
, i didn ' t think eather one ofthe these films would be any good from first instincts
. everyone loves surprises
. u
- 571 looked like another action film using an actuall war as an excuse to shoot torpedoes
and bullets
. thsi may be true
,
but the action isnt so extraordinary that it is clear director
/ co
- writer jonathan mostow completed his ultimate goal
; tothe blow tjhe audience ' s socks off
. set during the eearly stages of world war 2 when the untied states struggled tothe break the codes of the technologically advanced german u
- boats
, u
- 571 follows a small crew of american men who swipe the typewriter nessacary tothe solve tghe enigma from an enemy ship
. htere ' s only oney problem
: the american ship they came fomr
adn hoped to return to has been shot down stranding the men onthe a german submarine known as
( you guessed it
) u
- 571
. it isnt now up tothe tjhe mostly young
and inexperienced sailors
, led by an interm captain named tyler
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, tothe return the typewriter tothe america without getting sunk by far superior german ships
. the film starts off very slowy wiht a somewhat weak opening action sequence
and another uneventful half an hour to introduce several of the sailors
( most of whom die whn the mission goes awry or jsut inexplicably disappear
)
. once the crew gets onthe the u
- boat
, the movei shifts to another level
and never leaves htis high energy levle until yhe ending credits roll down
. as soon as the acation starts
, it does nto stop
anbd luckly
, because it is so exciting
, i didn ' t whant it to stpo
. htis isnt nto a movei forthe those wanting to avoid loud noises
, from the wonderful
, heart
- pounding csore tothe the constatn yelling of panicking men
, make sure yuo see this at a theater with suround
- sound
? otherwise
, do not see it all
. hte best parts ofthe u
- 571 are when tyler is forced to amking impromptu decisions on how to escape seemingly impossible situations
. throughout the movie
, several morals or characters are inctroduced to make tyler ' s job as stressful as possible
. germans gun down theri pwn men
, tyler ' s mentor captain dahlgren warns him that a captain hasnt to be prepared to sacrafice even the most beloved soldiers forthe a victory
, anyother sailor
( erik palladino
) threatens matinay
. all of theese examples
,
annd severeal others
, increse the chaotic atmosphere
and hte importance ofthe tyler ' s every move
. they also make u
- 571 one of the most exhilarating movies i have seen in a while
.