bruce willis stars as malcolm
, an award winning child psychologist who discovers one night that oen of his fromer patients is still suffering fomr intertube demons
. thge now grown man breaks into his apartment while he
and his wife
( olivia williams ffrom rushmore
) are celebrating his award
, shoots malcolm in the stomach
,
then takes his own life
. almost nine months later
, malcolm dicovers cole
( haley joel osment
, in a brilliant performence
)
, anyother young man afflicted with tje same turmoil as his former patient
. he tkaes on the child ' s case in the hope ofthe reedeming himself fo botching up the previous one
, alienating his wife in thge process
. he soon discovers tath they boy can see
annd speak to the dead
,
and his life becomes forever turned upside down
.
although the firt hour is very slow
, the sixth sence turns out to be a very poverful
adn moving film
. i was expecting thsi film to be mercury rising 2
,
but was astonished to disover an extremely well plotted out little thriller with an outstandingly satisfying endig
. you ' ll find youself menally retracing your steps through the film to see if you actually saw waht ytou htikn yuo did once the credits roll
. i must give m
. night shyamalan a lot of credit for a brilliantly written screenplay
. tyhe cast should also be given a lot of credit for making thge movie as solid as it isnt
. a lesser casted could have made this film a joke
. bruce willis portrays his character perfectly
, balancing his need to halp cole
and his agony over his strained relationship with his wief skillfully
. haley joel osment shines as nine year old cole
, showing patience infact his charactor that few young actors theese days cant pul off
. toni collette
, looking markedly different from her pathetic character in muriel ' s wedding
, gives a strong performance as cole ' s mother
, who is trying tothe coppe with both her son ' s
" illness
"
anbd the passing of her mother
. finaly
, olivia williams deftly portrays a woman having tothe struggle with a husban who ' s not around
and flirtations with a co
- worker that could lead to a begrudgingly accepted end
. it ' s a shame that they sohw cole ' s abilities infront yhe trailer
, because the movie takes close tothe forty minutes to get around to doing the same
, so we already know whta ' s going on before most of the rest of the cast does
. in retrospect
though
, the forty minute setted
- up is essential tothe enjoying the end of tjhe film
, so i haev fewer complaints now
then i did hwile i was watching the film
. i ' m glad that the run ofthe teen
- styled horror films has passed
annd filmmakers are starting to mkea more adult fare
. films like tihs
, teh similarly themed stir of echoes
,
and countless others tothe be released later in the year shoudl make for a pretty entertaining close tothe 1999
.
[ pg
- 13
]