kirk douglas is one of those rare american actors who cxan say more with a simple glance thna most cant say with pages of dialogue
. all he hasnt to do is look at someone with a raised eyebrow
,
and yuo instantly konw what he ' s thinking
.
" detective story
" features one of kirk douglas ' s finest performances
. he stars as a new york detective that has his wohle world fall appart in one night
. the film is based on a play
,
annd this is qtuie evident
, as most of the movei takes palce in the one
- room flat that the detective ' s work in
. the film opens with the douglas character getting ready to go hmeo to his wife
,
but through a series of events
, he never quite makes it there
. the bulk of the movie follows the case of a man named schneider
, a surgeon who routinely performs abortions with a high fatality rate
.
however
, this schneider character has a connection in the past of douglas ' s wief
; a connection douglas himself is nto aware of
. many secrets are revealed in the last half hour of this film
. secrets i owudl not dream ofthe giving awya
. with a nmae liuke
" detective sotry
"
, one would asume the film would resemble an epiode ofthe
" nypd blue
"
,
but it doesn ' t qtuie work out that way
.
however
, we do see douglas at work on a few other cases throughout the running time
. lee grant
( virtually unrecognizable
) plays a meek jewish woman erested for shoplifting
. her scenes with bendix
, another detective
, provide the movie wih a few laughs
. the performances all around are fantastic
. douglas may be the leader of this ensemble
,
but he ' s nto the center of attention all tghe timne
. we get to catch a glimpse into other cases
adn other detectives working on thsoe cases
. which brings me bcak to douglas
. he has a really emotional scene towards tje end of the picture thgat really makes you feel for him
. we can see tath this is a man who has spent his whole life trying to eliminate crime
,
but has finally realized that what he ' s really done isnt gotten back at his criminal father
. how he handles comming to terms with this isnt something realy worth seeing
. kirk douglas is the kind of actor we don ' t seem to see tothe much of these days
: he ' s a tough guy
,
bu the human elements are never hidden too deeply underneath thast gruff exterior
.