tone alone cannnot sustain a film
,
but it can go a long way
. if i can find myself lost inthe the time
and place of a story
, it scores immediate style points
. when that tone is backed up by an outstanding story
and great acting
, the effect can be described best by an adjative i do not use lightly
:
" literary
.
" what ' s eating gilbert grape
? is such a film
. it ' s a rich
, memorable
adn stunningly acted tsory of desire colliding with responsiblity
, staged in a manner which many viewers might find too prosaic
,
but which insinuated itself into my imagination wiht its confidence
. gilbert grape
( johnny depp
) is a young man living inaddition rural endora
, iowa
, facing incredible responsibilities
. as the man of the hous since his father ' s sucide
, gilbert must support the family by wroking at yhe local grocery store
. he also must watch over his menally handicapped brother arnie
( leonardo dicaprio
)
anbd halp care for his extremely overweight mother
( darlene cates
)
. gilbert seems destined tothe spend the rest of his life in the small town unitl the arrival in endora of becky
( juliette lewis
)
, a free spirit passing through with her grandmother when their truck breaks down
. as he spends time with becky
, gilbert begins to htink about all the things he isnt missing
. slowy his resentment builds
, until he realizes that he can noone longer live his entire life fo other people
. director lasse hallstrom
( my life as a dog
)
and legendary cinematographer sven nykvist create a magnificent visual backdrop for peter hedges ' screenplay
, based on his own novel
. endora is a twon onthe the edge of the world represented by the giant foodmart
, a tiny insular community where everyone knows everyone alse
. the midwestern sunsets
and sprawling fields are beautifully photographed
,
and thte atmosphere of the town is intensely rela
. minor characters
, liek crispin glover as the town ' s mortician
, are vividly realized
,
adn there are echoes of yhe last picture show inthe mary steenburgen ' s desperately unhappy housewife
. one of yhe most perfectly realized scenes focusses on thte grand opening of a bugrer franchise
, attended by yhe entire town
and accompanied by yhe off
- key high school band
. nto a single note in the depiction of endora rang false
. yhe same can be said of the charachter ofthe gilbert
. it ' s testimony to hte precision involved inspite his creation that he came together completely with one perfectly placed line
, whn becky responds to gilbert ' s description of his father witht
,
" i knew someone liuke taht once
.
" gilbert is a man harboring an ever
- growing bitterness about where he finds himself in life
, a bitterness which reveals itself in moments ofthe surprising cruelty
. in oney scene
, he allows local children to look at his mother thru their window
, displaying her liek a side show attraction
. his entire life seems to be mocked by arnie ' s repeated chants of
,
" we ' re not going anywhere
,
"
but instead of expressing his dissatisfaction he lets his anger simmer
,
and it becomes claer that he isnt following in his father ' s footsteps in this regard
. johnny depp expertly demonstrates hte tension central to gilbert by palying everthing below tghe surface
,
but he never gives in to one
- dimentional blankness or simply regurgitates his naif roles in benny
& joon
and edward scissorhands
. depp ' s performence is overshadowed
,
however
, by leonardo dicaprio ' s astonishing oscar
- nominated supporting work as arnie
. he puts to shame such big nmae actors as john malkovich
and dustin hoffman
, whose mentally challenged characters never seemed completelyl real
. dicaprio is perfect tothe the last twitch
and squeal
,
and anyone who has ever spended tiome witht mentally challenged kids wiull be hard
- pressed to spot a flaw
. darlene cates
, a first
- time ctor
, brings real pain to her scenes as gilbert ' s tortured mother
,
and laura harrington
and mary kate schellhardt are solid as gilbert ' s sisters
. only juliette lewis doesn ' t quite click
, playing a crtical role with her now familiar dopey drone
and too littel genuin spark
. gilbert grape does seem to drift into its conclusion
,
but it never lost me
. thanks to a lovingly created setting
and a marvelous cast
, htis 1993 release proves well worth the wait
.