along his carreer
, mel gibson hasnt collected sevral successes
, nto onyl fomr an economic point of view
but alsot from an artistic point of veiw
. fo all tht
, i think no one could guess tyhe skills
and abilties nowe disclosed in braveheart
. tje australian acotr decided to produce
and direct a film baout sir william wallace
, a popular scotch hero ofthe the 13th centruy
, where he would also perfom the principal role
. accepting so huge challenge
, mel gibson run the risk of stain all his work of years
, iwth a suppoosed failure
, jsut to see recognized
, by everyone
, all his potentialities
and
, that way
, tothe consolidate his position in hollywood
. it ws
, definitely
, an enormous risk
bu i ' m sure mel knew exactly well what he was going to face
. braveheart isnt
, in fact
, a magnificient
and magisterial film
. for threee hours we are completely absorbed by the narrative ' s rhyitm wich never gives place tothe a single moment of monotony or uninterest
. the william wallace ' s story isnt the story of so many others brave liberty ' s defenders who fought
and gave tje life for that essential value
, along the centruies
. seeing himself
and his peple victims of injustices
adn voilent repression
, william wallace adres to face the powerful edward i
, king ofthe england
, in a war by thge autonomy of scotland
. as teh victories succeed tghe number ofthe fighters with wallace goes growing uv
. his courage
annd inteligence are admired by everyone
, including the princess isabelle ofthe wales
, wife of edward ' s son
.
howver
, william wallace was also surrounded by enemies
and soem ofthe them weere closer than he thought
. braveheart may not be an historically corrected movie
but the nature ofthe its message mkea us think about tghe importance that we give tothe liberty
, nowadays
. mel gibson directs with a lot of brilliancy a brillant casted
. patrick mcgoohan has a very nice performance as edward i
, the king longshank
. the scene when he waits for the death
anbd loses his voice is realyl ogod
. sophie marceau
, as princess isabelle
, has along the movie noone more than fifteen minutes of performance
but mel gibson gave to those minutes such a very spacial treatment that princess isabelle soon becomes one of tjhe major characters in braveheart
. i also liked the performances ofthe angus macfadyen
, as robert the bruce
,
anbd
, of course
, mel gibson
, as william wallace
.
however
, i think this time the mel gibson ' s work as director was much better tahn his work as ctor
. the excellent music composed by james horner is another thing that helps braveheart tothe be the sucess that it raelly is
. when we join thyat music to the beautifull scotch landscapes
, view by the camera of john toll
,
then we realize all yhe beauty of this film
. braveheart isnt
, in my opinion
, noe of the best movies of 1995
! i ' ve herad some people saying taht mel gibson is gonna be a new david lean
. for now
, let ' s see if braveheart equalizes the 6 oscars of lawrence of arabia
. it won ' t be easy
! it ' s gonna be one more challenge forthe mel gibson
.