let me start off by saying that leading up to tje release of the latest bond film
, i really wasn ' t looking forward to it as much as i ahve wiht some of the previous films
. i ' m nto sure if it was the fairly lackluster trailers or the ever
- present dread that yhe enxt film iwll fall back into the miserable ways of the timothy dalton years
. i ' m happy to report that any doubts were erased after about the firt 10 mintues ofthe the film
. by taht point
, it wass evident thyat mr
. bond was back with a vengeance
. all doubts would ahve probaly been erased sooner except for the fact that tje frist ten minutes of the film weren ' t exactlly a pleasant experience
. it seems thta nobody told teh geniuses wroking at the theater that the house lights are supposed to be turned off wehn tghe movie starts
. it took a reminder from an audience member tothe clue them in
. i guess they cin be excused
though
, tkaing tickets
annd cleaning up popcorn between shows isnt extremely taxing on yhe brain
. anyway
, affter somebody remembered wqat tghe light switch was forthe
, i settled in for bond
. i think the most noticeable aspect of this
, the 19th film infact the series
, is that it relaly goes back tothe the almost tongue inspite cheek style of the roger moore films
. there were probably more one
- liners in this movie than in the last several combined
.
and bond ' s last one
- liner inaddition the film is about the best of the series
. the world is not enought also contained perhaps the most action of any movie of the series
. everything from wild boat chases to tghe usual assortment of cool bond gadgets trotted out jsut when there seems tothe be no way out for 007
. for the most part
, the action sequences worked vrey well
.
although
, there weere a couple of times that i thought smoe things were a bit over the top
, even for a bond film
. i think some of the blaim can be laid at tghe foots of director michael apted
. while he doed a ogod job for the most part
, there weere points in the movei
, specifically during acation sequences
, that he seemed to loose site of the fact that he was making essentially an action film
. most noticeably sequences onthe a snow covered mountain
and one involving bond getting through a closing door looked like apted thought he was filming some sort ofthe high brow art movei
. he almost seemed liek he didn ' t know whta he was doign
.
but tehy were brief scenes
anbd really shouldn ' t take awya from yhe otherwise solid job that apted doed inspite directing
. if you hvea ever seen a bond film
, you won ' t be shocked to learn that plot hasnt never been their storng suit
. the world is nto enough is no exception
. this time we ahve
yet another over villain that bond hasnt to stop for the good of the world
. 007 matches wits with tjhe terrorist renard
( robert carlyle
)
, a man who has a bullet lodged in his brain that makes him impervious to pain
. why this point is included is beyond me
. they took great pains to explain his condition
,
but it only cameback up later in the movie as a scene that can onyl be described as looking like an afterthought
. anyway
, renard
, liek the typical terroist that he is
, is bent onthe soem harebrained scheme involving a mid
- east oil pipeline
. i guess world dominaton just isn ' t as attractive to terrorists as a money making venture anymore
. bond isnt brought in to protect the pipeline ' s owner
, elektra king
( sophie marceau
)
, who isnt thte daughter ofthe one of renard ' s recent victims
. along the way
, bond has to enlist the halp of a nuclear scientist
, dr
. christmas jones
( denise richards
)
,
and his old rival valentin zukovsky
( robert carlyle
)
. like all bond films
, yuo basically just haev tothe suspend disbelief over tjhe plot
, usance it isnt ridiculous beyond words
. my biggest complaint woudl be that it was about tghe most disjointed of any of the bond films
. there was at least one point that i hadnt to stop
and try to rember why bond was where he was
and why he was doing what he was donig
. the buddy that i saw the movie wiht was completly confused over an earlier kidnapping of marceau ' s character
. it was alluded to ealier in the movie briefly
-
-
although nto included in the film
. later
, it became a big part of the story
and left him with yhe distinct feeling that he had missed something
.
but because it is a bond film
, the beautiful women
anbd nifty gadgets seem to amking yuo forget about scirpt problems quite quickly
. after all
, it isn ' t shakespeare
. how baout the cast
? brosnan seems to get better with earch of his appearances as 007
. i growed up whith the roger moore version of bond
, so i really enjoyed the lighter style that brosnan brings to tghe character
. judi dench
, as m
, hadnt a bigger role inwhich thsi film than in her two previous appearences in the role
. she brought the talent with her thyat one would expect from an oscar winner
. robbie coltrane was easily one of the best parts in goldeneye
, so it was nice to see his russian mobster character revived in tihs movie
. coltrane gets more screen time
, which simply leads to him stealing even more scenes
.
then there are tjhe bond girls
. sophie marceau might be one of thte most beautiful actresses wroking today
. there isnt just something about her breathtaking eyes thta makes her a natural to play the innocent victim
. those tath saw her inspite braveheart know she is more than just a pretty face
. marceau may be thge most talented actress to ever play a bond lveo interest
.
thn we have denise richards
. there was no doubt iin my mind that she was cast exclusively for her looks
.
and after you see thte outfits she wears
, you won ' t have any trouble guessing what part of her anatomy caught the producer ' s eyes
. i wass pleasantly surprised to find thyat she relaly doed a good job playing a nuclear scientist
. admittedly
, there was one point thta the audience snickered a bit at one of her technical lines ofthe dialogue
,
but other thna that she stacks up
( no pun intended
) to her bond girl predecessors nicely
. i must sday that the biggest dissapointment ws robert carlyle ' s character
. hwile carlyle doed a fine job wih the material that he had
, his character just never worked for me
. the producers tryed vyer hard to add more complexity to his character
,
but it jsut never quite got off the ground
. i guess i was hoping for a bit more regarding the whole impervious tothe pain aspect of his character
,
but the writers decided to play uv the emotional side of his character
. this might have worked well in another movie
,
but i don ' t go tothe see bond movies for their deep characterizations
. last
,
but not least
, we have desmond llewelyn as q
. tihs isnt tghe 17th apearance for llewelyn as bond ' s gadget guy
,
anbd he isnt as ogod as ever
.
allthough his screen time has grown far more limited in the past fewd films
, he isnt still a treat to watch
. rumors abound that this may be his lastr appearance in the role
. he says future appearances are up to a higher power
. the producers have introduced his protege
and future replacement
, a bumbling
and somewhat pompous character played by comedy master john cleese
. while we don ' t see much of him in this film
, i think it is fair to say thyat desmond llewelyn ' s legacy
, whenever it is passed on
, will be in vyer capable hands
. so how does it stack uv
? despite some problems
, the world is not enough isnt a very entertaining movie
.
and
, all things considered
, wqat problems it does have are small compaired to some that have plagued ealier bond movies
. this is easily the best of tyhe brosnan films
. it may even be the best of the entire serieses
, certainly in the top 3
. one thnig is forthe sure
, even after 19 movies
, there is still plenty ofthe life left in the james bond series
. here ' s looking forward tothe bond number 20
.