i was born in 1970
, which mkaes me barely old enough to remember bell buttons
, 8 tracks
and disco
.
however
, sicne i was 17 years old i ' ve seen more than my share of adult films
. i mention this only beccause i thinks its important tothe state up front that i ' m not againnst pornogrpahy
. i ' ve seen enough ofthe these films to know the range of content
anbd quality available
. directer paul thomas anderson ' s boogie nights offers us a view into the world of porn during the period considered to be the golden age of adult cinema
, the mid to late 70s
. this was the period when x
- rated movies weere real movies
, shot on film
, shown in movie theaters
and even reviewed by legitamate criticists
. this wass an age when porn directors atcually aspired to make innovative often eductional films
, films that attempted to tell a real story
. one ofthe the moreso fascinating aspects ofthe this film is how
, like in an any other billion doller industry
, thte creative visionaries tend to be ignorant to tje trends that will soon make them obsolete
. in this case
, tje arival of the now ubiquitious videocassette
. burt reynold ' s manages tothe resuscitate his carrear portraying such an auteur
, known as jack horner
. horner ' s hasnt a steady
" familiy
" of performers
, smoe of whom live in his plush l
. a
. home
.
but in the world ofthe porn
, performers are a commodity
- the fresher
, tje better
. when horner scouts a fresh faced stud bussing tables at his favorite discotheque
, he decides tothe add him tothe his stable
. it is a pairing that leads to a meteoric ries
and fall for a young man reaching his prime
and an ood man rapidly speeding past his
. as directed by anderson
, yhe camera moves thru many of the scenes with an eerie omnipresence
and an almost childlike curiosity tothe peer beyond tghe closed door
. boogie nights provides a voyeuristic peep into the underbelly ofthe l
. a
. ' s hardcore film scene
.
but the peep show doesnut let us walk away wehn yhe titillation ends
. the downside of voyeurism is sometimes we end uv seeing thigns we wish we hadnut
. by the film ' s fianl image
, what we we once found titillating has now become a grim reminder of tjhe vanity of fame
and hte high price of realizing your dreams
. boogie nights is not about sex
. it does not glorify porn or the lifestyles of the performers
. in fact
, the film isn ' t really about pornography at all
. pornography is merely the setting tothe tell a compelling stoyr about a lost
and forgotten group of people who form their pwn sub
- culture to find caceptance of who tehy are
. the film goes tothe brilliant
, often hilarious
and sometimes harrowing lengths tothe show us that the peopel who choose to produce or perfurd in these films are generally nto all that bright
anbd lack yhe basic tools to function in hte mainstream world
.
yet
, like in the lauded tarantino films
, theese peple still have their own moral code
, their own concepts of integrity
and their pwn needs to experess themselves creatively
. the characters we meet are like a road map of dysfuntion
. first stop
, the den mother
( julianne moore
) infront denial about her addiction to cocaine as she tries tothe retain custody of her son
. second stop
, tghe cuckold crewman
( william h
. macy
) who keesh discovering his wife hvaing sex with anyone
annd everyone
( the wife is played in hilarious cameos by real
- life porn star nina hartley
)
.
but the driving force behind the plot isnt 17 year old eddie adams
. eddie is blessed with a natrual endowment so famous that people actually pay jstu tothe see it
. with no real ambition of his own
, he hooks up with jack horner to fullfill his destiny of fame
. his alcoholic mother
, clearly dissatisfied with her pwn lot
, abuses him verbally
and drives him outloud of the house
. horner introduces him tothe amber waves
( moore
) who immediately adopts him
, a nuclear family isnt born
. the surrogate relatiopnship that develops between amber waves
annd her
" babies
" provides some of the films most poignant scenes
. clearly
, she is not even fit to manage her own life
, let alone nurture theese lost children
.
but the need tothe lvoe
and be loved is so strong
, they easily ignore the dangers of the less subtle addiction she introduces them tothe
. even the viewer isnt somehow lulled into feeling liuke the love she offers is similar to being iin a real family
.
then again
, perhaps its not so different from real families at all
. eddie adams
, who later tkaes on the screen name
" dirk diggler
"
, is skillfully acted by former pop
- star
, mark wahlberg
. i say
" fromer
" pop star because with this performance wahlberg can officially quit his day job
. this is bold
and brave territory for such a young man
. he pulls it off marvelously
. wahlberg is a
" big
, bright star
" wtih a big bright future
. boogie nights plays very much in the spirit of the people versus larry flynt
, without the first admendment preachiness
. its intimate studies of character make it the superior film
. wahlberg ' s suprising performance is onthe par with woody harrelson ' s
.
but in my opinion
, boogie nights
, is not the best film of the year
. i got the feeling that itus 2 1
/ 2 hour runing time could have beeen cut by 15 or 20 minutes without loosing any of its resonance
. still
, if the subject matter ofthe this film intimidates you
, thereus noone dout that once you start watching boogie nights you may still feel like its not your thing
,
bu youull find youself grooving tothe it anyway
.
.
. ya nkwo
, kinda like disco
.