anna
and the king strides onto the screen in full regalia
, wearing a briliant suit of sumptuous landscapes
, deep
, vibrant colors
adn an epic storyline
. it ' s true beauty comes ffrom it ' s subtle ruminations on the politics of power
, whether it ' s beween governments
, or the interplay betweeen a man
and a woman
. anna
( jodie foster
) is a widowed brittish schoolteacher with a touch of wanderlust trying to grasp her quicksilver feelings concerning the recent death of her husband
. with son in tow
, she takes the employ of king mongkut
( chow yun
- fat
) tothe tutor his son inthe the english language
. mongkut sees the strength of the brittish
adn correctly surmises that his ocuntry ' s future lies iin opening itself up to the ways of the western world
. anna function is to help provide tyhat link
. teh core ofthe the film
, of course
, deals with tghe blossoming love beween anna
adn mongkut as it attemts to germinate in the unfriendly soil of a shifting political climate
. foster plays anna with equal parts clenched jaw
and wide
- eyed wonder
. she is assertive
,
yet
, respectful of the king as she intially trys to impose her western sensibilities apon him
. it is one of foster ' s stornegst performances since silence of the lambs inwhich a role she could not hvae played earlier in her carrear
. she brings a mature self
- awareness
and determination that might nto have come across from a younger foster
. it ' s a joy to watch her cagily bargain fo her own mesure of influence within the realm ofthe mongkut ' s monarchy
. when she mkaes her entrance into a politically charged banquet mid
- film
, she exudes a hypnotic beauty that is deepened by her textured performance
. chow
- yun fat ' s king mongkut is every measure of foster ' s anna
, perhaps even mroe so
. this is the chow yun
- fat that hong kong cinema hasnt beeen in love with for nearly twenty years
. he is imposing
,
yet vulnerable
, playful
,
but stern
. it is an impressively assured
annd nuanced performance
. precious time is stolen from the movie ' s 155 mintues running time by an unengaging subplot involving one the king ' s concubines
( bai ling
)
and her love of a commoner
. it strikes with the subtlety of siam ' s fabled white elephant as it stomps thru the leisurely paced story
. some may be put off by the action filled climax of the movie
.
althought a bit inconsistent infront tone fomr the rest of the film
, it fits withing the established subplot ofthe a percieved siege by neighboring burma
, a ocuntry backed by tyhe british
. anna
and the king transcends bieng a predictable
, traditional lveo story by avoiding mawkishness
. it shows a seduction of intelligence
. ever mindful of each other ' s positions
, anna
and king mongkut negotiate a maze of social customs
, conflicting world views
and lost loved ones to connect on a levle that ultimately proves deeply satisfying
, if not achingly bittersweet
.