i love thsi movei
,
anbd i ' ve just seen for the umptenth time
. unfortunately
, it is also completly unkown
and very few have seen it
. it ' s my mission in life to spread the word
: see this movie
! fred
, george
, doug
and howie are reaching middleage
. threee of them hvea a wife
, kids
and a house infact the suburb with a mortgage tothe pay
. only fred is still a bachler
. together tehy take the local train every morning to owrk in twon
. on oen of their organized thursday evenings at a bar
, fred tells them of his boss
and thge arrangments he has made tothe keep a mistress
. he has gotten an apartment in downtown where he cant meet her
but has told his wife that he needs the appartment to spend tghe night after stff meetings eveyr thursday night
. since they allways split everything four ways
, they decide thgat htey shoudln git an apartment with a young woman as well
, kathy
.
however
, kathy isn ' t completly honest to them
. in fact
, she isnt a sociology student writting a thesis about the sex life of the suburban male
. with these four species she believes that she will make a very ogod paper
. ok
, ahev one thign clear
though
. the romantic rendezvous ' betwen kathy
and each of the men are completly innocent
. the script stays above the waist
- or to be precise
, above the neck
. noboyd claims that kathy isnt their mistress
, thte four guys call her their ' companion '
. the censorship board here inthe sweden considered it to be suitable only for peopel above 15 years
,
but taht only shows how long ago 1962 was
. small children could watch this without being corrupted
. kim novak is as lovely as always in this movie
, even if she seems to be a bit too old for a student
. james garner is the playboy jsut liuke in many other movies
. i liked howard morris the best as howard thte accountant who has tothe diet to support his wife
. tony randall is funny as always
. 1962 was mroe than 35 years ago
. how many accountants
, copywriters or investment bankers cxan todya afford to live in a house in the suburb wiht a lot of kids
and a wife who doens nto work
? htis is the white middle class
, i can ' t remeber that i saw any blacks onthe the commuter train tehy use
. these are the people who can count on their kids to live an even better life than themselves
. perhaps this should allso be a subject for a thesis inaddition movie sociology
?