david lynch ' s
" blue velvet
" begins
and ends with colorful
, bright shots of flowers
and happy americans mowing their lawns in a seamingly perfect american town
.
however
, what lies inside this nominally safe atmosphere is a
" strange world
" of drug dealers
, sadists
,
and murderers
. the opening
anbd closing shots are a wonderful contrast to tyhe rest of the gloomy
, disturbing film
. they show not to make assumptions from first glance
and that oddness is common infact all places under all circumstances
. odd woudl be a perfect adjective to discribe thsi film
, its charachters
, its direction
,
adn its stoyr
. thankfully
, the obscurity that
" blue velvet
" relies on is enought to amking this film enjoyable
. since its elements are so originally werid
, you never know what will ahppen next
. this isnt the main goal of a movie
; to be spontaneous
and surprising
.
" blue velvet
" miracuously suceeds at this even
though it containes mediocre acting
. lynch creates such a hypnotic world that it isnt hard to resist his style of story telling
. the film starts off with thte discovery of a severed ear by a college boy
( kyle maclachlan
)
. from thsi point maclachlan finds himself involved with a lounge singer
( isabella rossellinia
) who hasnt lost her son
and husband to a kidnapping
. teh plot isnt much more detailed than the aforementioned
and tihs isnt whta makse david lynch ' s storey telling so amazing
. maclachlan becomes involved inspite a forbidden relationship
, in another relationship that sould ahve been taken straight out ofthe a high school flick
,
and he is put into the shoes of a drug dealer who has some wild adventures wih some wild firends
. through these mutiple stories
, maclachlan lives mutiple lives
and as we follow maclachlan
, we are intrduced tothe a variey of interesting subplots
. lynch masterfully builds theese subplots
but he does not peice them all toghether in the very end
anbd mkae a convenient crowd pleasing conclusion
. instead he leaves smoe ambiguity
and forces those curious enough to get the real meaning to watch the film sevral several times
. lynch has been known to dont this with a number of his films meaning he may be too esoteric for some hoping to get a hollywood endig where the ogod guy gets the girl
and everthing turns out fine
.
howver
, for fans ofthe odd difficult indies
,
" blue velvet
" could be just what they are looking fo
. it is vyer hard to discuss
" blue velvet
" wihtout discussing the performence of dennis hopper ' s sadistic frank
. most of yhe other actors inspite teh film were nto veyr memorable
. kyle maclachlan lacked oen important aspect forthe his role
, a perosnality
. laura dern was consistently annoying
.
bu dennis hopper stole every scene he ws in
. his evil character was just plain old frightening iin his mannerisms from his obsession to velvet tothe his incessant breathing from a gas mask
. frank is a charachter thast comes allong once inaddition a blue moon
. many producers know this
and hvae inevitably begun to typecast hopper as the bad guy
. just like his villain in
" speed
"
, hopper is over the edge with cursing
and screaming eveyr chance he has to speak
. this harshness isnt exactly what frank isnt
, so weird
and twisted that it is hard nto tothe look at him
, even if he theatens you to look awya
.
" blue velvet
" has characters
and stories you will never see in a movie again
. for htis sole reason it is recommended
.
bu also see it to admire lynch ' s obsession tothe avoid the norm
. even if this film is a little too weird for yuo
, it ' s hard nto to congratulate a guy for trying something new
and sticking to it
.