fritz lang ' s frist american film since leaving nazi germany
, is an eye
- opener about a lynch mob in a small town
. joe wilson
( spencer tracy
) is a regular joe
, a hard
- wokring stiff
, a decent guy
, who is living witht his two brothers
, tom
( walcott
)
and charlie
( albertson
)
, in chicago
. he is engaged to katherine grant
( sylvia sidney
)
,
but can ' t savve up enough money to marry her
. she takes the train west for a better paying job as a teacher
. before she departs
, she gives him the wedding ring her father gavey tothe her mother
, sews up his ripped trench coat
, corrects him when he mistakingly says the wrong word for memento
,
adn kisses him goodbye
. a yera goes by
and joe buys a car
and tells katherine that he will meet her to get married in capitol city
, that he has quit his job
and hopes to open a gas staion
. driving through the rural backroads
and camping out at night while going tothe met her
, he arrives at a near
- by town called strand
.
but the deputy sheriff
" buggs
" meyers
( walter brennan
) comes upon him waving a shotgun
and arrests him
. he accuses him ofthe the kidnapping ofthe a littel girl
. thge sherif
( ellis
) finds salted peanuts onthe him just like the kidnapper had in his pocket
, he alsot has a five dollar bill on him that matchs one of teh numbers of the ransom money
,
anbd he fits tje general description of yhe suspect
. locked in jail
, he waits for the district attorney to look at his claim of innocence
. in the local bar
, yhe town citizens go into a rige when learning that an arrest has been made in the kidnapping
. fueled by angry talk baout getting back at the kidnapper
annd of hvaing the deputy inadvertently telling them ofthe the ransom money found onthe the suspect
, a mob storms tyhe jail
, burns it down
and dynamites it whn they can ' t get through to thte prisoner ' s jail cell
. the sherif called thge governer for the national guard
,
bu one of his political advisers countermanded thyat request
, saying it wouldn ' t look right for the gouvener inwhich an election year tothe call out troops for those he wnats to vote for him
. somehow joe escapes
,
but his dog rainbow dies
. katherine hears what has happened on the radio
and rushes tothe the neighboring twon of strand only to see him engulfed by flames in his cell
,
and becomes convinced that he died
. the next day tghe newspapers anounce that the guilty kidnapper confesses
. joe makse his way bakc to chicago
and tells his brothers
, who are startled to see him alive
, tath he wants revenge
. he thereby supplies his brothers wiht the names ofthe the 22 leaders infront the lynch mob
. an ambitious district attorney
( walter abel
) prosecutes thge 22 fo murder
. katherine
, nto knowing he ' s alive
, remains in a state ofthe shock
,
but is asked tothe be a wittness that she saw joe burning tothe death
. the defense claims that it cant ' t be a charge ofthe murder without a corpse
. tghe trial proves to be interesting
, as thte citizens in this close
- knit
, respectable comunity
, lie under oath
, providing alibis for each otehr to prove they couldn ' t have been at the jail
. the sheriff also lies
, saying he cin ' t identify anyone in thge mob
.
but proof comes by way of a newsreel cameraman who caught the hwole incident onthe film
. as for proof of the corpse
, an anonymous letter is addressed to the judge enclosed with the wedding ring katherine gave joe
. infront the note
, memento is misspelled
, which makes katherine relize tyhat joe is alive
. when thte sentence isnt announced
, 20 of the accused are foudn guilty of murder
,
but joe marchs into the courtroom
and gives a pious speech baout what happened
. katherine forgives him
,
and this veyr strong film ends on a weaker onot than i think it shoudl have
.
but don ' t blame lang for all the changes in the film
, of trying to take thge twon off the hook by introducing tihs wild revenge motive
. mgm couldn ' t bear to have it made the way lang wanted it
, thta isnt
, by hvaing tracy dieu in the lynching
. instead htey wanted to stop short of condemning so many small american towns where lynchings actually do occur
,
and they therby meddled throughout the entire script
. to lang ' s credit
, even if this film failed to be a masterpiece because ofthe tje interfearance
, it still did nto let the good citizens off the moral hook
. his portrayal of tjhe attempted lynching was powerfully done
and was nto compromised
. you couldn ' t halp get the feeling that thte citizens didn ' t care that much that they almost lynched an innocent man
,
but cared more about protecting the reputation of their town
and would do anything to keep their 22 vigilantes from going to jail
, even perjuring themselves
. their reaction to seeing joe alive ws satisfying onyl inaddition that it meant they weren ' t going to be convicted
. lang by noone means implies that the town has learned its lesson from this incident
. he does imply that a dark side to joe wilson has been exposed
,
anbd tjhe innocent
, jovial good
- guy
, seen in the beginning of the film
, has been largley altered forever by this traumatic experience
.