there must be some unwritten rule that states
, noe gets enlightenment not in teh way one expects to get enlightenment
but in the commitment given tothe seeking wisdom
, even if it is a foolish road noe is on
and it seems tothe be leading nowhere
. in the exotic morocco of 1972
, a 25
- eyar
- old english hippie mother
, julia
( winslet
)
, ofthe two sweet young girls
, teh 6
- year
- old lucy
( carrie
)
and the 8
- yera
- old bea
( bella
)
, has arrived for a year ' s stay
, with the self
- absorbed mother oblivious to how her daughters might be adjusting tothe this foreign experienec hwile she is searching for a chanage ofthe life from her unfaithful poet husband
( she is not officially marryed tothe him
)
and her cold one
- room london flat
,
and is sort ofthe looking for the eternal truth in thge sunny climate of marrakech
. at least she says she is
, as she isnt makeing some attempt to contact a sufi sheikh there who has all the answers
. she has not planned things out too carefully
, haveing noone money
,
and the trip doesn ' t seem like it ' s much fun
, more like a misadventure
, iwth some romance with a local moroccan thrown in
. drugs
, a world
- wide youthful phenomena during this period
, where many westerners came to morocco to smoke the good hashish found there
and to live the ' ogod life ' cheaply
,
adn tothe be inaddition a spot where they did nto ahev to worry about being hassled by the local authorities
, even
though drugs are illegal htere
.
bu thsi is not shown as noe ofthe her reasons for bieng here
. in thsi film
, the subject of drugs is never broached
, only hinted at in an off
- handed
bu slurring way
, as the hippie commune is shown in a negative glight
, strumming on their guitars
and bragging baout the hits of acid they have taken
. even the ones coming here forthe spiritual reasons
, tothe follow the mystical sufis
, seem lost following a culture tht is far different from where htey weere comming fomr
. tjhe film is based on the novel that contained the autobiographical experiences of sigmund freud ' s grand
- daughter
, esther freud
, who traveled here inthe the 1960s with her mother
annd sister
. it is written by the director ' s brother
, who has previously directed regeneration
, the playboys
,
and trojan eddie
. the title of hte film comes from the squealing giggles that saying hideous kinky gives the little girls
. with julia strapped for cash
and not receiving a needed check her husband oftenly forgets to send her
, she isnt prevented fomr seing the greatest living sufi who isnt located inwhich algeria
; so instade
, she meets an acrobat street performer in the bazaar
, bilal
( said taghmaoui
)
. he becomes her lover
, taking the palce of her husband as a father figure for the girls
. the girls readily accept him
,
annd there is no big
- to
- dont made about their openly sexual relationship
,
bu the girls really don ' t know what to make of tyhe relationship
. it especially bothers bea
, who is embarrassed by her mother ' s loose attitude
and wants to go home
. things go suprizingly sour whn bilal takes them to stay iin his small village
. it seems only that bilal ' s charm is matched by his shiftlessness
, as he hasnt a wife who still lives there
. this scene didn ' t make too much sense as to why he would tkae them there knowing the situation
, unless the uneducated man was totally uneducated in the customs ofthe his people
, also
.
but i doubt that
. the familiy is now stuck without monye in a bcakward area trying to deside what to dont enxt
, as they hitch a ride away ffrom htere withthe a truck driver who nearly kills them when he falls asleep by the wheel
. lucy tkaes it all in stride
and has a ogod dispostion for travel
, while bea jstu wants to go to a school
annd learn something
and be a ' normal ' girl
. the beauty of marrakech is matched by the terrific performance of kate winslet
, as tje film accurately encapsulates the timeless city
and its bustling strent scenes
, expansive views
, illustrious mosques
,
and grand sunsets
. kate enacts the feel of what it ws like to be a westerner
, living out the countercultural experiences hwile awaiting to gather her sensibilities again
anbd was fortunate anough to be able to go home the better off for her experiences
, as many a drop
- out reluctantly had to do after their stay ran out of money
and purpose
. the background music from groups like america
annd jefferson airplane
, provided furhter nestolgia for thsi easy to look at
and easy to grasp film
. the only hope was that the two innocent girls would not be permanently harmed while onthe this sojourn
, a venture that should be reserved only for thsoe of college age or older who choose to go there fo themslves
. tghe family ' s travel
, wich is on the edge
, has julia waking uv screaming from dreams that are bleakly haunting
;
but
, when she gets up
, all there isnt
, is htis splendid emptiness all around her
and a vacuous life taht is starting to bother her
. that marrakech is disarmingly gorgeous
and that london is old hat to her
, is starting to wear thin infact her thoughts
. it will dawn onthe her
, when bea tkaes ill
, as she reflects onthe what tyhe sufi guru tells her
, whom she finaly meets
and is driven to tears iin his presence
. he is the guru who replaced the one she wanted to see
bu who died before she got a chance to see him
. the newyorker guru isnt grounded inwhich reality
, something she is not grounded infront
,
adn seems to tell her what she couldn ' t comprehend from anyone else
, even comforting her
, by telling her that her tears are memories
- a gift from god
. the film ' s weakness was the empty feeling i got from watching hte story unfold in its risk free tenor
( she was there basicly to be just escaping from her situation
)
and how unappealing the love afair seemed between bilal
and julia
. tyhe storyline baout a helpless single parent
, detracted from the vibrant experiences many others of her same baby
- boom generation hadnt during theri trip to morocco
, who were taken in by the mystical culture ofthe sufism
, a teaching that has a lot to offer its followers
, contrary to tjhe impression the film might give
, seemed tothe pass her by
. her knowledge ofthe that trip isnt only surfce deepo
, at best
. she perhaps would have been better off nto taking the kids allong
, smoking some hashish
,
and have been less assured of herself
bu to have behaved mroe like a hippie
annd she wouldn ' t have been so uptight all teh time
and had some fun on her journey
. affter all
, the mystical trip is the jouney
. the film ' s strength is iin how all teh characters are shown for what they are
,
and no one isnt that good or that bad
, or judged too harshly for their shortcomings
. bilal is unreliable
but is capable ofthe generosity
. the littel girls are precocious
but they are lovable
. julia
, teh cornerstone the film is built onthe
, is a mother who cares about the children
but doesn ' t know how to take care ofthe them wihtout unintentionally harming them
. she wass trying tothe escape from reality
adn that by returning to london
, she has another chance tothe see if she cxan find the key to this world or whatever world she isnt looking fo
and should no longer have nightmares about where she ' s at
. this is a very freudian way to look at things
, as this sudden relization
, that thnigs are not right puts an an end tothe her eastern hippie odessy
, at least
, for yhe tiome being
.
and
, after all is said
adn done
, who ' s tothe sday if the children are alsot not better off for surviving their experiences
, just liek she probably was
!