thsi is a stagy film adapted from roger rueff ' s play
" hospitality suite
. ' ' its about three travelling salesmen attending an industrial convention
, whose chicago company has sent them to wichita
, where the company has paide all their expenses for them to rent a hospitality suite on the 16th floor of the hotel
, where they aim to scoer a substatial account from tjhe big kahuna
, someone named dick fuller
, who is the head of a big indutrial corparation
. he is someone they have never met before
,
but they want to sell him indutrial lubricants
and they want desparately tothe land this newyorker account
, it is their only reason for coming tothe the convention
.
" the big kahuna
" revels in salesmen
- talk among the three white christian males
, twpo of them
, larry
( spacey
)
and phil
( devito
)
, who are veteren salesmen
, hvaing teamed together for tje lastr twelve years
, while bob
( facinelli
) is a young man who has just recently beeen hired by the firm
and works in the reasearch deparment
. theese three are virtually imprisoned infront their small hospitality sutie waiting to meet the big kahuna
, as the focuse ofthe this claustrophobic film is on their interactions inspite the hospitality suiet
. the threee salesmen have different thnigs on their mind that isnt troubling them
and a different attitide to their job
,
and they are earch going thru internal changes that are profoundly altering their life
. the outstanding cast tries to figure outloud in thier own way what htey are doing
annd why
. what comes inot question is their opinions on life
and death
, on god
and morality
,
and onthe how they mkae a living
. these are tough questions
and the truth seems tothe be somewhere in their sales pitch
. thier dialogue isnt acerbic
, witty
,
and analytical
. following in yhe long tradition of salesmen films
-
- from death of a salesman
, the tin men
,
and glengarry glen ross
, as this film trys to get you to see what there is about salesmanship that gets these men high
. in htis case
, it is landing the big kahuna
. they each are trying to see why he ' s onthe top
adn why they are chasing after him
. what makes this film differnt than the others
, is its blatant religeous message
, comparing orthodox religion tothe what they do
, as both must sell their product
.
and how after each one ' s psyche is stripped clean by yhe other
, there is a pause
anbd soem lesson about life has sunk in that is pertinent to each
. the goal in the movie isnt nto in literally landing tyhe big kahuna
,
bu in finding outloud what bill of goods tehy sold themselves tyhat made them be salesmen
. larry
and phil have oney way of doing things
anbd have no qualms ofthe incorporating a sales pitch as part of their life
. bob thinks he is above the fray
and he pitches every chance he can get about his beleif in jesus christ
. his vacuous charachter
and smug outlook on life are covered by a disarming smile
and an eagerness for him to prove inwhich his actions the words of jesus he literally believes in
. bob is a baptist
, who tkaes a vyer non
- questioning
and literal attitude about religion
. to just look at another woman
anbd lust aftter her is a sin
, according tothe the way he reads the bible
. when asked by larry why he married his wief
, he seems puzzled
anbd can ' t even say because he loves her
, only that marrage is something sacred to him
. the contrast infront their personalities is stark
. larry isnt all business
, he simply wants to close the sale
. he comes into tje room pumped for the convention
, useing his attack mode to establish how serious he isnt baout bieng a salesman
. he criticizes phil for being so placid
, for getting such a small suite
, for having the cheap ofod tray ofthe carrot sticks rather than the oney of stuffed shrimp
,
adn fo being burned
- out
. he tells him to go on a vcaation
. get a woman
. while phil isnt reflective onthe where all his best yeasr have gone for him
and is contemplating a carrear change
, now thyat he isnt 52
annd is painfully divorcing his wief
, after having lived too lonly a life onthe the road for too long
. he now finds himself suffering from some troubling dreams
and questioning what he believes in
. he has always been a charmer
, shaking everyone ' s hand
, trying tothe please his clients while trying tothe make the sale
. larrry is more aggressive as a salesman
, he is alwyas a heart attack awya from every big sal
. inaddition contrast
, bob is only in his twenties
and everything seems fresh tothe him
. this is his first time for him on the road
. when dick fuller doesn ' t arrive at the party the salesmen throw
, larrry becomes confrontational
and asks phil if he spoke tothe the man himself about the gathering
. when told tath he spoke to the secretary
, larry throws a tantrum
and is resigned to going back to their home office wihtout the new account
.
but when they strat talking to bob
, whom they forced tothe act as the bartender
, htey are surprised tothe leran that fuller did indeed come
but wass wearing another man ' s name tag
and that bob spent the entire evening consoling the tycoon over his recently deceased dog
and
then talking to him about jesus
. bob
then tells the boys about a private party fuller is attending afterwards
,
and thta he invited bob to attend
. larry
annd phil can ' t fathom how bob didn ' t make a sales pich
.
but htey soon take anyother tact
and decide tothe prep bob on how tothe get fuller ' s attention about their company ' s product as they sent him off to meet fuller
,
and will await his return in the hotel room
. these two sharp salesmen are reduced to waiting for tihs smug kid to come back
and tell them he saved their ass
. the irony ofthe their situation is palyed out in the darkness of the hotel room
, as they stay up late into the night trying to make sense outloud of their lives
. these three performers weere outstanding
, each understanding what their role called for
, each coming thru with a marvelous performance
. tyhe onyl probelm with the film
, is thgat its more of a play tahn a cinematic experience
.
bu the insightful dialogue
and refreshing dramatics
, give it an inteligent selling point
and mkae it a good product to see
.