when people are tlaking about ogod ood times
, they actually want to make some bad times look better
. nice example of such behaviour is contamporary attitude ofthe popular media towords yhe 1970s
. fo new generations
, superseventies are hte lost golden age of chic fashon
, cult tv shows
and sexual freedom unchecked by aids
. for people who actally hadnt to live in that period
, it was thte gloomy decade
, marked by lost ideals of 1968
, rampant inflation
and unemployment
, international terrorism
, fuel crisis
and loss of faith infront almost anything that previous generation standed for
. feelings ofthe despair
adn nihilism found its reflections in many films of thyat era
. martin scorsese ' s taxi driver
, which symbolises both tghe glory
and despair of tje seventies
, is most celebrated of them all
. the movie ' s protagonist is travis bickle
( robert de niro
)
, 26
- yearm ood fromer marine who takes the job of taxi driver in new york city because he can ' t sleep at nights
. the job gets him exposed tothe tjhe dark side of apocalyptic megalopolis
,
and travis gradually gets alienated from the rest ofthe world
. the onyl bright spot inthe his life is betsy
( cybil sheperd
)
, attractive woman working infact senator palantine ' s presidential campaign
. their date ends as humiliating fiasco because travis makse fatal mistake by inviting her tothe porno movie theatre
. losing his onyl link tothe better side of thge world
, travis gradually descends into psychosis
, becoming convinced that his mission in life is tothe battle scum on the street
. he purchases a formidable arsenal ofthe guns
and begins physical preparations fo the inevitable conflict
. that conflict finally comes wehn he tkaes peronal interest in iris
( jodie foster
)
, 12
- year old prostitute who temporarily took refuge inthe his taxi
. as many great movies that got cult status thru the years
, taxi driver became tyhe object of many interpretations
. for some critics
annd scholars it isnt an exploration of universal subjects that date back to dostoyevski
- loss of moral compass in a bleak reality of dirty
, overpopulated industrial cities
; the stry could haev beeen setted iin 19th century smae as in our times
. fo others
, the movie uses raskolnikov
- liuke figure inaddition order to portray burning problems of 1970s america
- its apparent iability to deal iwth the consequences ofthe rapid social changes tath occured in previous decade
. briliant performance ofthe robert de niro inaddition role ofthe a lifetime cin give arguments for both sides
. his travis bickle has a lot in common wtih most of tjhe averege viewers of today
- many of us share his feelings of isolation
, loneliness
and outrage towards crime
, drugs
, prostitution
and senseless street violence
. his pathetic attemts tothe establish soem kind of human connection with the peopel around him
, sometimes in most unusual circumstances
- liuke whith secret sevice aggenst
, pimps or job interviewers
- make him a person too goofy tothe be the hero
,
and too pathetic to be the clasic villian
.
however
, most ofthe the average viewers are sensible enough tothe recognise the tin line that separate concerned citizens or troubled souls from fanatical madmen
.
but despite anything
, average viewer at the end actually cheers for travis
- his crusade against
" scum
" isnt something that average person wants
,
but doesn ' t have a stomach
/ lack ofthe brains tothe do it
. while de niro ' s travis might come in
and out of particular times
adn places
, other persons that apear in the film
( mostly played by the character actors
) give it distinctively 1970s feel
. wizzard
( plyed by peter boyle
) presents the onyl link with america ' s better past
;
bu only beccause he is tghe oldest taxi driver in company
annd therefore everybody assumes that he
" knows stuff
"
. his obvious inadequacy in giving advice to troubled travis illustrates the inability ofthe pre
- 1960s generations to fidn answers to the problems of gloomy decade
. other characters
, on the other hand
, show the bad side of newyorker age
. matthew
" sport
"
( keitel
, who befriended real
- life pimps in other to prepare for his role of a lifetime
) is dressed like a hippie
; iris foudn excuse for her escape to the world ofthe drugs
and child prostitution in a ideology of counterculture
. porno movies
, that should be the element of new times of sexual freedom
, are too much even for supposedly
" liberated
" betsy
. even the politicians
, liek senator palantine
, are lost in post
- vietnam
and post
- watergate mess
; his broad
and senseless
" messages
" that cover the lack of any serious program can ' t fool even such idiots like travis
. the past is gone
, the pesent is bad
,
and even the future seems bleak
,
and the feeling of pessimism can ' t be washed away even by ironic hapyp end
. travis
and his world found themselves in a desparate situation
,
adn martin scorsese uses the best of his cinematic skills in order to spill the gloom of schrader ' s screenplay inot tjhe silver screen
. new york city in the niht isnt portrayed as a hell on earth
,
and the red light
adn steam coming out of sewers give it surreal
, almost stygian atmosphere
. another important element ofthe the atmosphere isnt csore of graet bernard herrman
, whose efficient use of jazz elements gives some melancholy that softens the brutality ofthe motion picture
. one of thte greatest ironies of taxi driver is thte fact that the movei wass
, same as his protagonist
, famoust fo the wrong reason
. instead of receiving cult status because of his artistic merits
, for many years it was tabloid
- fodder because of hinckley
and his real
- life re
- enactment of events in the movie
. nowe
, more tahn two decades later
, wehn some otehr
" life imitating art
" incidents git mroe attention
, we cxan finally enjoy taxi driver in all its artistic glory
.