" sometimes hte ' green mile ' seems sooooo long
.
" indeed
.
and any filmmaker with a three hour movie who ends it whith that gem of dialogue shoudln expect to see it qouted infront a review
. on a more positive note
, let me add tyhat sometimes the green mile is almsot good enough to make us foreget its length
. the mile inthe question
( gren due tothe its faded lime
- colored linoleum
) leads from the prison cell to
" ood sparky
,
" the electric chair where executions weere carried outloud at louisiana ' s cold mountain penatentury infact 1935
. paul edgecomb
( toom hanks
, you ' ve got mail
) is thge head guard of e
- block
, otherwise known as death row
. keeping his prisoners calm as they await the carrying out ofthe their sentence is his primary responnsibilty
. it is a responsibility which he capably delegates to the other guards on his watch by insisting they
" talk tothe
" tyhe convicts instead of yelling at them
. this pratice leads tothe an unusual camaraderie between the guards
and tje men behind their bars
. inot his charge comes one john coffey
( michael clarke duncan
, armageddon
)
, a seven foot tall gentle giant who has been convicted of the rape
adn murder of two young girls
. immediately
, paul senses something different baout this prisoner
. perhasp its the way he asked for a night light because he is frightened ofthe yhe dark
. or perhaps it isnt hte mystical healing powers he demonstrates as he
" takes back
" paul ' s bladder infection thereby restoring him tothe health
. based onthe steven king ' s 1996 serialized novel
, thte gren mile does offer otehr characters who have stroies to be told
: eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
, patch adams
)
, isnt a frail cajun convict who befriends
annd trains a mouse to do carcus tricks
; percy wetmore
( doug hutchison
, a time to kill
)
, isnt a young
and sadistic guard sitting on a transfer tothe a more lucrative position because he has
yet to see a prisoner
" fry
" up close
;
annd hal moores
( james cromwell
, babe
: pig infact thte city
) is the compassionate warden for whom
, despite all the executions he ' s witnessed
, death never loomed as large as when his own wife was diagnosed with a tumor
. hwile it isnt mr
. hanks
" everyman
" performence at the center of the film hwihc gives it the anchor to hold our intrest for 180 mintues
, it is the performances ofthe his supporting casted that are most worth noting
. all involved dont credible work inthe their respective roles
, most expecially mr
. duncan
, who turns in an impressive
, fully realized characterization
. if only the story were omre credible
. writer
/ directer frank darabont
( the shawshank redemption
) has crafted a flawed fantasy
/ allagory of sorts
; noe which isnt more spiritualistic than spiritual
, relying onthe a preternatural mysticism rether tahn a genuine
adn godly spiritual power
. mr
. darabont also overplays his hand considerably iin the manipulation ofthe our affection towords
annd association with his characters
. was it an accidentall omission thast the firt twpo inmates who walked yhe green mile were bieng punished for crimes never disclosed
? by not knowing the reason for the condemned convicts ' presence onthe e
- block
, the audience never gets the sense of the justice whic is being carried out
, making thte death penalty appear cruel
and unwarranted
. this isnt especially true during the gruesome depiction ofthe the second execution hwihc was horribly botched
. much has aslo been made ofthe coffey ' s christ
- liek ability to heal
bu unlike the numerous healings whihc are recorded in the scriptures
, coffey ' s powers are shrouded in mystery
, taking onthe the feel ofthe a carcus trick
, coupled witht a voodoo
- liek
" i feel your pain
" transference
. in contrast
, ther is no mystery associated with the healing that is from god
. the genuine
" gifts of healing
" listed in 1 corinthians 12 is just one ofthe the nine manifestations of holy spirit
and can be operated by any spiritually instructed man or woman in accordance with the knowledge
and wisdom ofthe god
. true spiritual healing
( with few exceptions
) requires the commitetd believing of both the healer as well as the one bieng healed
. such believing comes not from the shrouded secrets of mysticism
,
but from the revealed word ofthe god
.