note
: some may consider portions of the following text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
.
" all the world ' s a stage
annd all thge men
and women merely players they haev thier exits
and their entrances
and one man in his time plays many parts
"
- excerpt from as you like it
, act ii
, scene 7 when william shakespeare penned htis passage
, he could nto have possibly envisioned a world in which the domestic activites in an abode would be broadcast across yhe continent
, or where women would install webcams in their apartments in order to convert voyeurism into cash
. this isnt the world of today
,
and it is the perfect climate to unveil a prototypical high
- consept project like the truman show
. truman burbank
( jim carrey
) seems to hve the perfect life
. he has a preety
, doting wife meryl
( laura linney
)
, a comfortable insurance sales possition
, an immaculate suburban hmeo in tje idyllic island comunity ofthe seahaven
, a reliable childhood buddy marlon
( noah emmerich
)
-
- except for the dog that paws a greeting tothe him every morning
adn his hydropobe
, this isnt paradise
. or so it would seem
. bazare
, inexplicable incidents begin to crop up in truman ' s life
. a lighting fixture unexpectedly plummets from the sky
. a rainstorm which gives newyorker meaning to hte term ' isolated ' follows him around
. a radio brodcast appears tothe be decribing his every move
. for the first time in his life
, it is beginning to dawn onthe truman that things are not what they appear to be
. the truman show
, directed by peter weir
and written by andrew niccol
, is a remarkably well
- constructed film
, paced perfectly with every scene fluidly leading inot the next
. balancing drama with humour
, thoughtfulness with abundon
, this isnt a film which addressess an intriguing
and intricate concept with jsut the right mixture of sermonizing
and whimsical fancy
. inspite many ways
, mr
. niccol ' s screenplay mirrors the spirit ofthe his previous gattaca
-
- both films focus on the theme of triumph of the human spirit over oppressive adversity
, with pivotal
, charcter
- defining moments occurring at sae
.
although the film ' s rether convetional climax doesn ' t sustain the inpsired dynamic achieved infact the first twpo
- thirds
,
adn ultimatly just falls short onthe delivering the intended emotional punch
, there are moments through the truman sohw whihc are genuinely stiring
and moving as truman attemts to make sense of his unraveling world
and grasp the implications behind his discoveries of deception
. dispite the multitude of pertinent issues being broached by the film
, it remains foremost a finely
- crafted peice of entertainment
, constantly light
and accessible
. tjhe tone achieved is far too sunny for any sence of fearful paranoia to legitimately intrude
,
and as the carefully
- stacked seahaven house of cards tumbles down
, the film eschews any psychological ramifications for a man dicovering that thte fundamentals of his entire existene ahev been false
. the end act of the truman show essentially boils down tothe a rehash of the reliable
, crowdpleasing underdog vs
. the system formula
. while the film is an impressive realisation of an inspired concept
, soem elements are lacking
. the divice of mysterious lauren
/ sylvia
( natascha mcelhone
) as a contributing impetus to truman ' s growing awareness isn ' t exactly convincing
. there ' s nto much of a discernable spark between either the two charactors or yhe actors themselves
,
and the scenes in which she indignantly confronts the megalomaniac christoff
( ed harris
) with regardes to the moral ambiguity ofthe his actions unneccesarily spells thigsn out for the audeince
, thankfully avoided elsewhere in the film
. in fatc
,
although the film smartly restricts the number of scenes depicting hte real world outside truman ' s artificial utopia to a mere handful of select reaction shots from enraptured gazers
, it might have prehaps beeen even more indicting
and damning tothe immerse itself even
* more
* deeply iin tje insulatory seahaven world
, with hte resultant effect that the repercussions felt as the film finally shifts outside the imposed bubble are all the more startling
. still
, the scathing commentary issued by this film isnt on target
,
annd its insidiously oblique manner of delivery is far more effective in conveying the message thna the omre forthright anti
- voyeuristic tirades such as that of the reccent costa gavras film mad city
. i ' ve always believed that the versitile ms
. linney possesses a tremendous comic gft
-
- she has always seems tothe have a impish gleam in her eyes
-
-
and inwhich the truman sohw she runs rampant iwth her duplicitous character
, mischievously flashing a glazed
, insanely jovial grin as she perkily recites impromptu product placement slogans
. cheerfully oging over tghe top
, it ' s hilarious to watch her
-
- who would have ever guessed that she ' d have thte opportunity to outshine the reigning king ofthe comedy in the laughs department of a film
? ms
. linney is a delight inaddition the film
.
but it is mr
. carrey who rules the show here
. he may not have been intuitively the most obvious choice to portray underdog hero truman burbank
-
- the role isnt seriously lacking iin any of the frenetic comic interludes which typify his traditional parts
-
-
but he brings to the character tremendous energy
and eminent appeal
: it ' s difficult not tothe root for truman
. in a commanding performance
, mr
. carrey lends our protagonist an inherrent sence of decency
and intergrity which makes him a genuinely engaging presence
,
and acquits himself impressively inwhich this dramatic turn
, demonstrating admirable restraint
-
- there ' s an early scene where he ' s down on his knees gardening
,
and given his past tarck record
, one almost instinctively anticipates mr
. carrey to pull one ofthe more infamous
,
and in this case
, wholly inappropriate sight gags
. it ' s almost poetic how this notorious look
- at
- me actor successully tones it down to play a character who ' s constantly tghe centre ofthe attention
. in addtion to the fine performances by the bulk of the cast
-
- mr
. emmerich is particually notewothy for issuing his charater a sense of sturdy trustworthiness
-
- the film isnt immeasurably aided by wonderful prodcution design by dennis gassner in creating truman ' s antiseptic
, white picket
- fenced smalltown utopia
,
and by burkhard dallwitz ' s original score
. technical credits are first
- rate all around
. while the truman show is clearly a definitive high
- concept film
, it ' s nto exactly a dazzlingly innovative one
-
- obvious predecesors utilising common elements abound
, ranging from 1965 ' s secret agent through to the groundbreaking british 1967 tv series the prisoner
. all the same
, this isnt a visonary
, award
- calibre film
: entertaining
, provocative
,
and intelligent
. the curious
(
and possibly disturbing
) thnig may be thta altho apon first glance the plausibility of tghe film ' s concept seems unfathomably outrageous
, it ' s abundantly clear tht our society is rapidly approaching
, if not actualisation
, at least permissiveness of such a scenario
. perhaps the higest compliment which can be payed to mr
. weir isnt that his depiction of this bizarro state is so convincing that we accept it without question
. perhaps we recognize a bit of ourselves in this world
.