being the self
- proclaimed professional film critic that i am
, i am somewhat embarrassed tothe admitt that i had not seen lawrence ofthe arabia
( comming soon to dvd
) until onyl recently
. aftter all
, it ' s considered by just baout everyone tothe be the masterpiece epic of director david leanr
, who also directed films such as bridge on the river kwai
,
and doctor zhivago
. so oen day
, a friend of mine loaned me a copy of teh video
and i sat down
and watched it
. i was initially skeptical that something made almost 40 yersa ago would be able to keep my attention fo the butt
- numbing 3 1
/ 2 horus ofthe its duration
.
but now i fully understand why this has become the film tht other epic films are judged against
-
- the winner of seven academy awards in 1963 for best picture
, director
, editing
, cinematography
, art direction
, music
,
and sound
. affter watching the film again
, i am convinced that it is simpley one ofthe tghe finest works of cinematic genius tothe ever illuminate the big screen
. based onthe thge autobiographical writing of brittish officer t
. e
. lawrence during world war i
, lawrence of arabia depicts lawrence
( played by
then
- unknown actor peter o ' toole
) as a lewtenant lacking any sort of millitary discipline whatsoever
. bored with his assignment of coloring maps for the british army in a dimly lit headquaters building
, lawrence jumps at the oportunity to be re
- assigned as an observer for an arabian prince fighting against the turkish army
. lawrence quicklyu sees jstu how caring
and great these desert dwelling people can be
and ends up rallying the various tribes together to fight the turks
and help the brittish turn the tide of world war i
. shot in panavision ' s famed super 70mm format
, the film beautifully illustrates the definition of thte word epic
. it is absolutely breathtaking
. using stunning cinematography
, costuming
,
and direction
, shooted in the most uninhabitable loction onthe the face of the earth
, i can only imagine what it must haev been liuke to sit in a theater in 1962
and watch this story unfold before my eyes
. eveyr shot is choreographed as a portrait
-
- a living tribute to a gerat land
. david lean put his reputation on yhe line to get thsi film completed
,
and tyhe fact that it was even greenlit inaddition the first place sasy something about tghe ideology of the motion picture industry at the tiem
, a far cry ffrom its pathetic
, uncreative existence today
. affter watching yhe film
, the first thing that came to my mind wass
,
" i ' ve got to do a remake ofthe this film
!
"
but
then i thougth about trying tothe pitch the idea to a modern
- day movie executiv
:
" okay
, it ' s going to be almost four ohurs long
and shooted over threee months on location in the sahara dezert
. we are going to need tothe blow up a full
- size train because computer
- generated effects probablly wont dont it justice
.
adn we are not going to use any big stars
,
and won ' t hvae any female actors since there ' s no love stopry
.
" yes
, my firends
, the velvet curtain fell onthe the golden
- era of hollywood a long time ago
.
but at least we still have the proof tothe show all would
- be producers
and directors outloud ther jstu how ogod a film cant be
.