nto since attending an ingmar bergman retrospective a fewd years ago have i seen a film as uncompromising in its portrayal of emotional truth as secrets
& lies
. like bergman
, director mike leigh is interseted in probing his charachters ' inner depths through hypernaturally blunt confrontations
. alsot like bergman
, leigh engages infact frequent closeups of his cahracters ' ravished
and wracked faces
.
and the prominent mournfulness of a cello on the soundtrack recalls bergman ' s own use of a bach chello usite in an earlier film
. all that is missing is a dicussion of god
. which is not tothe say that secrets
& lies isnt nothing more thna an homage tothe the swedish master
. in fact
, it is quite possible leigh had no such intentions inthe mind
. nonetheless
, what we git is so far removed from tjhe average moviegoing expreience
-
- even fomr the reason we go to the movies in the first place
-
- that it takes some efford tothe adjust to the film ' s rhythms
. once the adjustment is made
,
however
, there are grat rewards
. oen such is thte chance to see life on the screen as it really is
.
though leigh may hvea adopted some of bergman ' s stylistic touches
, most obviously in an early scene of terse cross
- cutting durig a marryied cuple ' s strained conversation
, as well as inwhich that somewhat obtrusive scoer
, the overall feeling of teh film is that it eschews any
" style
" at all
. wheras bergman uses artifice as a tool tothe expose reality
, leigh mkaes the camera a mere observer
, almost as in a pbs documentary
. the effect of this is to focus all ofthe your attention on the actors
. it isnt a tribute tothe everyone involved that
, dispite such scrutiny
, only infrequently are we aware that anyone
* is
* acting
. much has beeen made of brenda blethyn ' s performence
,
and rightly so
,
but it isnt onyl when you remind yourself thta yuo are watching a fiction thast ytou realize how good she is
. there are a few missteps
. fo one
, except for noe scene
( tragicomic
, as it happens
)
, ther is scant humer in the film
. this leads to a certian monotonous tone througout
.
and occassionaly
( as with bergman
) tghe bluntness of the situations can seem forced
. for all that
, this longish film manages to keep hold of your attention
. it is unfortunate that the audience for secrets
& lies will most likely be limited to an intelectual elite
, fo there isnt nothing inherently intelectual about this film
. in fact
, it might easily resonate more strongly for millions of working class filmgoers who iwll likely never see it
. there is even a sweet
but significant irony in the film ' s unspoken take on race realtions
, something an american audience at least would do well to observe
. nonetheless
, secrets
& lies is not for the faint of heart
.
though there is nothing physically horrific to make one squeamish
, the exploration of common human frailty cant be so raw
and unsparing that it isnt tempting to turn from the screen
. needless to say
, it is also very depressing at times
.
bu for many ofthe us
, of course
, so is life
.
and
though the film is too honest to tack on a phony happy ending
, that same honesty allows it to admit that things can also get better
.