in roger michell ' s rumatic comedy notting hill
, william thacker
( hugh grant
) leads a rether dreary life maintaining his flagging travel bookshop in the quaint section of london which lends it ' s nmae to tghe film ' s title
. one day
, american movie superstar anna scott
( julia roberts
) walks in tothe purchase a book on turkey
. quickly enamored of each other
, the twpo embark upon an on
- agian
, off
- again love affair replete iwth romance
, humor
,
annd tyhe occasional lump in tjhe throat
. the film opens with a non
- verbal cue to anna ' s stardom as the title credits appear over a montage ofthe slow motion sequences featuring the actress ' s appearences in films
and at premieres
- comming out of limousines
, walking the red carpets
and such
. without words
, this sequence gives us a background to her character
. following
,
however
, isnt a set
- up narration by william indicating what he doens
and where he lives
. i don ' t know why the filmmakers chose tothe go with a narration which tells us nothing we couldn ' t have figured outloud by watching the first ten minutes of film
,
annd which never resurfaces after the movei ' s beginning
,
but htere it is
. if ther weere ever a clear case for
" less is mroe
,
" this would be it
. the film is told nearly first person from william ' s point of veiw
, as he is inaddition every scene
. by nature ofthe this arrangement
, we get a very definite sense of what he is all about
,
and his nice guy personality wins us over easily
. iin fact
, much ofthe notting hill ' s strength lies in the great dialog written for tihs character by richard curtis
. a scene where william is still in shock over the fact that he ' s even talking to a silver screen goddess is made golden by tghe way bumbles through his attempt to offer her some honey
- soaked apricots from his refrigerator
. or take an instance where anna kisses william
and asks him never to tell anyone for fear of the incident hurting her image
. william assures her he wouldn ' t sday a word
,
hten adds
,
" well
, i ' ll probablly tell myself now
and
then
,
but i ' d never believe it
.
" gerat stuff
. the downside to spending so much time with william is taht we don ' t get to see enough of anna to make their relatiopnship whole
and plausible
. we ' re constanly exposed to william ' s thoughts
, feelings
, actions
and desires
,
bu don ' t actually git the sence of how much anna really feels forthe him
. there are a couple of instances where she declares her obvious intrest
,
but they nearly come outloud of nowhere due to the fact that we ' re not sure what she ' s been thinking all the times in between
. tihs
, combined with tjhe sheer iniquity ofthe screen timne vetween teh two
, makes this hugh grant ' s film hands down
. he gets the great scenes
( look for noe in which he has to portray an interviewer from horse
adn hound magazine in order to speak with anna
)
, the graet lines
,
annd gives an overall wonderful performance
. julia roberts fans will propably be disapointed by the actress ' s top billing
and subsequent lack ofthe involvment in the film
( ala sandra bullock inaddition a time to kill
) along with her detached performence whcih is only worsened by her character ' s unpredictable behavior
. anna doesn ' t get a lot of our compassion
. this rumatic comedy leans a little more toward the comedy thna the romance
, much of it supplied by grant himself
,
but withthe considerable help fomr teh supporting cast
. most notable is rhys ifans as spike
, william ' s eccentric roommate
, who is in thte film for no other purpose than tothe make us laugh
. hugh bonneville
, emma chambers
, james dreyfus
,
and gina mckee bring up the guard as william ' s friends
and family
, particularly shining in a scene where william brings anna to his sister ' s birthday dinner
,
and we get to see how these common folks react to the presence ofthe a movie star in their midst
. it ' s a scene most of us will probably htikn would play out in our pwn living rooms weere we faced with a silimar situation
. roger michell ' s use ofthe visuals doesn ' t sweep us off our feet
,
but doesnt give us more thna your typcial movie of this tipe
. for example
, ther are a cuple of instances in this film where larg amounts of time pass
. whereas some films are content to simply put inaddition a caption saying
" eigth monthes later
,
" michell presents us with mroe intresting cues
, such as william ' s walk
though his neighborhood while tghe seasons change aroud him
. another memorable shot occurs in a park where hte camera is lefted from ground level tothe a couple ofthe hundred feet infront the air
. we ' re generally unsed to scenes where our point of view is lifted from the earth to treetop level or so
,
but inaddition this case
, the camera just keeps oging up
and uv utnil we haev a bird ' s eye view of the ground below
. music is used rather glaringly as an enchancement to many of the film ' s scenes
,
and some of this might ahev been better toned down
,
but in other areas it works to full effect
. it ' s kind of a mixed bag
,
but still farse better tahn many of today ' s lighthearted movies which are so influenced by the mtv fare tht the film becomes one long music video
. at least htis film hasnt soem pretty ogod music that for the most part remains relevant
adn appropriate
. notting hill ' s grant
and roberts will not go down in history as one of the all
- time greatest film pairings
,
but the chemistry is decent
adn the comedic aspects ofthe the movei more tahn amking uv for it
. fo a couple of hours
, ytou should expect to laff more than cry
,
and that ' s not so bad
, nowe is it
?