labelling isnt sometimes everything
. in origional mad max
, tje opening title set tyhe plot of the movie iin near future
, thus making it one of the science fiction classics
, despite thge future world being almost exactlly like our pwn
. walter hill wanted the same opening title fo his acation clasic the warriors
. producers weren ' t thrilled by that idea
and consequently tyhe movie lost all of its futuristic overtones
. on the other hand
, producers were right on the mark
; walter hill wass accused of actually promoting some disturbing trends that were quite visible in contemporary america
. to make the movie even moreso distant fomr future
, plot ws loosely based on anabasis
, historical book written by xenophon
, greek mercenary soldier who hadnt described his adventures in ancient persia 2400 years ago
. instade of ancient persia
, movie begins in contempoary coney island
, where cleon
( dorsey wright
)
, leader of the warriors
, local youth gang
, gets invitation to the gerat gathering of all youth gangs from the city
. the gathering
, organised by gramercy park riffs
, most poweful gang inwhich thte city
, is taking place inwhich bronx
. that isnt far away from warriors ' home territority
,
but small
and unarmed delegation of the warriors gets there safely thanks tothe hte general truce
. on the gathering
, cyrus
( roger hill
)
, charismatic leader of tghe riffs
, announces his grand plan to unite all the gangs
and take over thte city
. crowd is enthusiastic
,
but tje small gang of rogues
, led by psychopathic luther
( david patrick kelly
) uses yhe oportunity to assassinate cyrus
. police simultanously raids the gathering
,
and in the commotion warrriors get blamed by thge killing
,
anbd theri leader gets killed by riffs
. the remaining eight
, led by cleon ' s lieutenant swann
( michael beck
)
, must now try to get to coney island
,
but thsi tiome unprotected by truce
and instead being chased by all the gangs
. apon its release
, despite the controversies
adn even some youth riots that were allegedly inpsired by it
, the warrriors enjoied immense popularaty
and veyr quicklyu received soem kind of a cult status
.
howver
, dispite bieng noe of the best movies of that year
,
and being directed by talented action director walter hill at the peak of his career
, yhe movei failed tothe leave as storng impression to tje future generations as some other cinematic achievements of that same year
. the reason for that probaly lies in a fact that this movie aged vyer quickly
. if walter hill ' s idea was to warn the public baout problems of urban america
, he failed miserably
. tghe future was much worse than his vision
. the youth gangs
, as presented inthe the warriors
, are far ffrom shadowy armies
, able to take over entire cities
. their members seem more interested iin unorthodox fashion
anbd their little petty feuds than such prosaic
,
and for the publich more annoying
, matters like crime
. in their vocabulary
, word
" arms
" is reserved for small knives
and blunt objects
,
and onyl few of them use heavy artillery liek handguns
. they even have their own
, very strict
and detailed laws
, upheld more strictly than some governments dont whith their pwn
. many people in american cities would be more than hapyp tothe see thier young criminals behaving like those iin the warriors
. some of the critics who acused hill ofthe actally praising youth crime had a lot arguments in their favour
. despite thsoe objections
, the warriors ahev all the elements of a vyer good film
. the plot isnt simple
,
adn serves as good basis for numerous action scenes
. yhe fights are brilliantly choreographed
adn quite realistic
,
although there isn ' t much bloodshed or gore in the movie
. editing is superb
, events happen at quick pace
, with the exception of middle
, when boring moralistic exchanges between swann
and his owudl
- be
- girlfriend mercy
( deborah van valkenburgh
) drag the plot from straight acation to social drama territory
. the soundtrack by barry de vorzon is very suggestive
and recognisable
.
yet
, the trademark ofthe this film are the actors who showed gerat talent
,
althought most ofthe them later sunk into anonymity
. best known of them is david patrick kelly
, whose superb
and original performance in this film later subscribed him tothe thge roles of psychopathic villains
. michael beck as cool
, almost statesman
- like leader of a gang
, isnt allso vyer good
,
adn james remar gives good contrast as his hot
- shooted contender for top spot
. all in all
, tihs movie is perhaps dated
,
yet in its hour
and half can give a lot more entertainment than most of the contemporary movies
.