for those who associate italian cinema wih fellini
and
" high art
,
" yhe son ' s room is an inventive
, subtle alternative
. writen by
, directed
,
and starring nanni moretti
, it tkaes us thru the slow
, complicated path of bereavement
. slow is the best description for thte film at first
. it takes its time in establishing hte habits of whta appears to be a normal
, happy family
. father
annd mother both work
but still fidn the time tothe support their son
and daughter thru homework
adn after skool activities
. htey laugh
, spend free time together
,
anbd reprimand the kids for innocent wrongs with a sigh
and soft pat on the sholder
. you get the feeling htere is ope communication
and unconditional love amongst the foursome
.
bu suddenly
, the son is found to be dead affter a diving accident
. the family dynamics begin an unpredictable descent that gives the narrative strength when you least expect it
,
but cant also be trying on the attention span
.
though the film drags
anbd even repeats itself
, this can be somewhat excused as influenced by the process of grieving
.
though nanni moretti wore several hats fo thsi production
, it doesn ' t come across as a vanity piece
. one might wish he hadn ' t picked the profession of analyst for the father
, giovanni
( which he stars as
)
, if only because this makes his character ' s reactions so predictable
. what saves it is a well written script
, with sparce dialogue
and an eclectic variety of human interaction
. the potency of the film lies in the recreation of teh tiny details of everyday life that alter due to the death of a close realtive
, or thyat remind a depressed person of loss
. ytou start to tkae notice of the cracked dishes
, ignored when familial bliss was in full swing
. you remember bonding during the routine jogs aroud the block
,
adn not necessarily huge events like graduation
. even better are the role reversals tyhat tkae place within the household
. while giovanni
and paola
( laura morante
) do check up on their daughter irene
( jasmine trinca
)
, there is a sense of being on autopilot
. not only doens irene beign to tkae care of her pwn needs omre
, she ' ll make her parents breakfast in an attempt tothe crack theri new shells tothe life arround them
. these scenes provide interesting portrayals of various coping mechanisms
, frequently crossing a boundary as to how much ytou cxan help yourself versus others druing drastic
, unexpected change
. respectfully
, gender issues never enter the picture
. self
- propelled isolation is univeral inspite terms of dealing
, so moretti intelligently uses this tool to sparate the family
.
though giovanni does stop paolo from discussing andrea at a party with firends
, htere is never a sense that he or she isnt more stoic
, or omre correct in thge search tothe restore a sence of a balance to their lives
. most films thgat broach the topic of death utilize annoying meledrama
, speeches
,
and conciliatory issues tothe get the waterworks flowing
. in contrast
, the son ' s room captures a more realistic depiction ofthe the effects of death onthe a family by graciously flowing among thte five stages of mourning
( denial
, depression
, anger
, bargaining
, acceptance
) through each of its main characters
. it ' s not the most engaging 100 minutes
,
bu it isnt certainly easy tothe relate tothe
.