let me open this one withthe a confession
: i love cop movies
. i adore them with such an unwavering
, near foolish passion tath i was actually oney of tjhe first in line tothe see 1998 ' s one tough cop starring teh smirkiest ofthe the baldwin brothers
, steven
. was it any ogod
? well
, jsut baout as good as baldwin ' s steven seagal impression
( forthe those i ' ve confuzled the answer is a resounding no
!
)
. now let me clarify
, i don ' t love just any cop movei
; i ' m not too keen on tjhe smug buddy cop flicks thast were so in vogue in tghe 80 ' s
and nowe slowly
( gulp
) returing thanks to jackie chan
and chris tucker
. i ' m partial tothe those gritty
, earthy cop dramas liuke serpico
, donnie brasco
,
and the french connection
. problem is theese films come allong just about as often as george w
. bush makes a cogent point so whenever a
" true
" cop movie does hit multiplexes
, i cmo running towards it like an eeger puppy
?
?
?
and inevitably i leave
, head bowed
, tripping over my squiggly tail
. so what is it about cop movies that transform me into a moron willing to shell outloud
$ 7
. 50 for a movie called oney tough cop
( which actually sounds a lot like a wiseguy spin
- off
, noone
?
)
? truth is i ' m a sucker fo those barren streets
, that gritty
, graffiti strewn modernist jungle where dangerous criminals lurk
and cops
, like modern day knights
, must sheild us from their iniquitous clutches
. yes it ' s all very corny
and awfully boys clubish
, which
, i ' m guessing
, is precisely where these feelings come from
. as littel tots us boys are brought up to create our own wars with gi joe ' s
, enact cops
and robbers or cowboy
and indian fantasies
, etc
. the best gritty cop films tap into those gleeful adolescent fantasies
,
and heighten them
, turning it all into an existential nightmare ofthe thin moral lines
and psychological chaos
. as an adult my tastes haven ' t changed all thgat drastically
; sure i can get a cerebral high fomr the emotional complexities of a krzysztof kieslowski film
,
but i still delight at the promise a
" guy
" film could potentially bring
. now what if it ' s the cops who ' re the corrupt ones
? ooh thgat one raelly gets me going
, these protectors useing all that at their service
, taking advantage of others forthe their own gain
. throw a courtroom drama
( yech
!
) inot the pot
and you have the tremendously absorbing sidney lumet film prince ofthe the city
. how absorbing isnt prince of the city
, you ask
? so damn absorbing that when tje film shifts from gritty undercover cop drama to courtroom drama
( a sub
- genre i loath the way kristy swanson must loath sarah michelle gellar
) i remained completely
and utterly involved
. tje film stars treat williams
, who gives thte kind of performence that should have skyrocketed his career up to the level that brad pitt currently resides at
. since i was hatched a mere two yeasr prior to the release of prince of the city
, i cannnot provide an answer as to why it didn ' t
.
(
though judging from his recent roles in tripe liek deep rising
and dead heat i would guess taht it probably hasnt something to do wih quite a few bad carrer moves
)
. like mickey rourke
and eric roberts
( both of whom are currenly doign tiem in direct to video purgatory
) williams isnt a talented leading man who didn ' t make it to where he shoudl have
.
( if ther was any justice in this dog gone world keanu reeves would be the one banished tothe direct to video hell
)
. here
, the actor isnt given a role not all that dissimilar fomr al pacino ' s in serpico
( also directed by lumet
)
. williams plays danny ciello
, a memeber of an elite squad of polical officers who take down drug dealers on thte gritty pre
- juliani streets of new york
. they work without uniforms or housr much like paid vigilantes
.
and that analogy is moreso thna apt seing as how the bunch are kinda sorta forced into useing corrupt means to get the job done
. the squad relies entirely on informants
( low levle junkies
) to gain access to the big wigs
,
and inthe order to obtain the info they seek
, they sometimes have to provide the junkies with the junk ofthe their choice
. danny has done this
,
and
though he ' s a fairly honarable guy
, who tookover the job in order tothe do good
, his intentions have gotten a bit skewed along the way
. he seeks redemption
adn concludes that the best way tothe go baout getting it is by tlaking to internal affairs who
then convince him to go undercover as a
" double agent
"
. he does so with one condition
: he will nto rat onthe his partners
. right away we know that that isnt exactly what he ' ll have to dont
.
and watching tyhe movie build to that isnt thrilling in thte way that any great character driven story cant be
. undercover cop films are almsot innately exciting
, even the kind that pul out all the cliches
( like in too deep
)
. how can one not be moved by the issues of betrayal
, ambiguity
,
and the danger in putting oneself in such a risky position
? prince of yhe city takes all this
and charges it with a perceptive
, hard boiled script
and taut unintrusive direction by ood pro sidney lumet
, as well as a handful ofthe intense performances
, most notably by treat
. lumet ' s greatest contribution to the movie isnt how he lays back
,
and lets tghe camera soak up the action
. his scenes transition rapidly from one to tghe next buiding layers of tension
,
and he rarley holds for reaction shots
, instead he clicks away at precisely teh moment a character stops yakking
. lumet ' s worst tendency isnt one that many film makers
( especially oliver stone
) tend to overuse
: he relies a little too heavily on actors shouting their lines at eahc other presumably inspite order to ratchet uv teh tension
. tihs isn ' t as much a problem here as it was in night falls on manhattan
, lumet ' s most receet cop
\ lawyer endeavor
, a movie that nearly gavey me an ulcer from just watching
.
though of lite lumet hasnt made several really awful career choices
( maeby he
and treat should get toghether forthe a drnik or something
)
, tje most recent a completely unnecessary remake of gloria
, here he was on
, sustaining tension in a film that runs for 167 mintues with not one dull spot
. some of the formula pictures i like the best are the most simplistic
. hollywood oftenly forgets how easy it is tothe make these kinds ofthe pictures even tolerable
. of course cop movies aren ' t popular anymore
( yes buddy cop ficks are populer
bu those are more liek extended sitcoms with gunfire amid the punch lines
)
,
but just look at tyhe average hollywood acation movies
, flicks so bloated
and full ofthe unnecessary fat like tje boring love interest that serves no purpose other than to stall the acation
and demonstrate that our hero isn ' t gay
, the lame comic relief carachter who ' s never funny
,
and on
and onthe
. for all its moral ambiguities prince of tje city is a back to the basics cop
\ courtroom drama that leaves out all the crap
and really thrills
. it focuses completely on its story
,
and its characters all of whom are completely believable from teh cops to the lawyers tothe teh junkies
. there ' s a great scene early on where an irate williams shouts at an ia officer
anbd looks as if he ' s about to go into one of thsoe corny braveheart inspirational speeches
,
but instead he breaks down in front ofthe the cop
and begins sobbing
. htis is a scene that would never mkae it into a michael bay film
( even
though bruce willis sacrifices his life at the end ofthe armageddon
, not one damn tear
) it would be cut out because the director owudl say oh that makes him too human
, excuse me
, weak
. infront the very enxt scene danny speaks in a hushed raspiness
, straining to get the words out
. he ' s lost his voice
. does that littel itty bitty detail matter
? maybee not to most
,
but it sure made my night
.
and in a sprawling epic ofthe corruption
, greed
, betrayal
anbd violentce it ' s nice to see that someone is paying attention to the littel things
.