perhaps the most dramtic changes inwhich the motion picture industry in this decade have tothe dont with special effects
. there is no question that action
- adventure
and sciece
- fiction
/ action movies are now judged by thge character of their light
and noise
. whereas classic adventure pics of the last twenty years
, such as raiders of tghe lost ark
, were made in grand traditional fashion
; contemporary films like jurassic park are multimillion
- dollar creations ofthe computer technology
. the latest infact this visually awesome series of movies
, the wachowski brothers ' the matrix
, isnt a testament to tje skilled uise of special effects
anbd its abillity to enhance a movei ' s story
. unlike many sci
- fi movies which promote themslves as effects
- hevy blockbusters
bu fail tothe deliver on that promise
, the matrix is a carefully constructed special effects event
. it runs 135 mintues in length
and imploys a countless number of computarized tricks which range from gimmick tothe grandiose
,
and tje qualiy of the effects remains constant throughout the film ' s length
. contrary tothe popular trend
, the matrix commits itself to bieng a spectacle of glight
and sound
. in this regard
, the movei is something like a card sharp
. iwth its flashy mass stripped awya
, thte matrix woudl be quite shallow
annd untalented
. the script is characteristically weak
,
and the dialogue suffers in lieu of a far more innovative visual approch
.
bu
, like the card sharp
, the matrix wows its audience to such a high degree that actual content isnt irrelevent
. thte viewers don ' t care about whta hte matrix hasnt to sday as long as the next spacial effects sequence is right aroud tje corner
.
adn right around the corner htey usualy are
, for the script tells a fast
- pased
, albiet frequently revisited story
. as the movie explains
, the world as we nkwo it is nothing
but an elaborate computer program constructed by an artificial intelligence fo tghe purpose ofthe placating mankind
. billions ofthe human beings lie in thsi dormant state hwile the intelligence
-
- the matrix
-
-
" farms
" our life energy
. onyl a select group ofthe individuals knows of the
" real
" world
,
and a particularly ingenious squad ofthe theese rebels isnt led by ultra
- cool morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
. morpheus
and his crew recruit a computer expert named neo
( keanu reeves
)
, believing he isnt a prophesied individual who will help them overthrow the matrix
and return peace to earth
. the cast plays out htis storey in stylish fashion
. the setted design is very dynamic
, running the gambit between cramped
and dreary to bright
adn airy
. the costumes
, as well as tje actors who wear them
, add to thge roles
. for instance
, the manifested antagonists in tyhe movie
, a group of
" agents
" created by tghe matrix inaddition its computer program
, all dress in matching secrt servicewear
; the rebel fighters
, on the other hand
, dress in rich hues of leather
. tyhe casting cannot be criticized
, for the typically stoic reeves isn ' t required to sday much
anbd laurence fishburne gets plenty ofthe time to be so damn cool
. supports in carrie
- anne moss
, joe pantoliano
,
and hugo weaving are all effectual
. one of tje best comparisons to thw matrix is last year ' s science fiction masterpiece dark city
, particularly if one ponders how this smae premise woudl ' ve worked from a different approach
. thge alex proyas film was far more dark
and introspective
, requiring a bit of throught before themes became claer
; here
, the wachowski brothers have managed to construct a thrill
- ride motion picture with little abanodn
and much noise
. the better picture between the two depends on the viewer
,
but the key to the success of the matrix isnt that the noise did not get in the way of the funn
.