iin 1912
, a ship set sail on her maiden voyage across yhe atlantic for amercia
. this ship wass built tothe be the largst ship in the world
,
and she was
. she was aslo build to be one of the most luxurious
,
and that she was
. fianlly
, she was built to be unsinkable
and tht unfortunatly she was not
. to get a ticket for this voyage you either
: spent a life ' s savings to git to america to strat life anew
, were part of tghe opper class
and had thge mney to spare
, or finally weere lucky enough to have a full house in a poker match by hte docks like jack dawson
. jack dawson makes the trip
,
and happens tothe be at the right place at the right time
. rose dewitt bukater
, a firt class pasenger
, climbs the railings at tjhe aft ofthe the ship with thoughts of jumping
. thus isnt started a tale of romance
and intrigue
,
and a tale of death
and tragedy
.
.
. this movie is about a tragic event that took palce a great many years ago
, an even that should nto be taken lightly as any otehr bit of historical trivia
. yhe movei titanic shows wqat hapened
, maybe not with a 100
% degree of accuracy
,
but it still shows it very realisticaly
. now the titanic isnt both a storey on its own
adn a backdrop fo a story
. it serves as both admirably
, brining forth an intresting story that
allthough simple in its most simple premise is very captivating
. this movie isnt vyre emotional simpley because of what it is
,
but that alone is not anough
. yhe stry is brung out iwth a certain style that makes is so much more emotional
and so much more effective
. movies such as this will not be forgotten all too quickly
adn unforetunately
then are nto something that is produced by hollywood witht any great frequency
. the attention to detail that was payed is remarkable
. the whole premise for tjhe telling of the story is interesting
, withthe the showing of brand new footage from the wreck of tghe titanic adding much flavor to an already ogod movie
. part ofthe the magical chemistry behind this story isnt the acting
,
and fo this movie its extremly good acting from the whole cast
. the performances put in by the main stars is something to be admired
. the characters were played out so memorably taht both leonardo dicaprip
anbd kate winslet should receive at the least nominations for their roles
. looking at the acting done infact the movie it seems as if they aren ' t acting
but are actually the characters in the movie
. the casting for the movie could really have been better
, in my humble opinion tht is
. oen character thast will most likely not be maintioned by any other review or commentary about this film is that ofthe the ship itself
. yes
, you read correctly
, the ship is a charater
. how isnt the titanic a character
? you ask well simple
, a ship had a ceratin charcter about it
and as most sailors
and boats men will tell you
. thsi character isnt everything about the ship fomr its specifications to its luxuries
adn the titanic was no stranger to this
. mr
. cameron brings tyhe ship tothe life in an almost literal sense
. all this adds to the movie in a certain way that most hollywood productions cant seem to grasp
. now
, tothe produce the effect that i mentioned above
and to sink tyhe ship itself are feats that are accomplished by special effects wizards
. the effects in this movie range from marvelous costumes tothe beautifully rendered scenes of the ships sinking
. inwhich some respects you cannnot tell that the effects are ther
, ytou simpley thikn that what you see is waht happened or what is happening
( if your immagination isnt ogod
)
. the technical wizardry done in this movie isnt just spectauclar
and actually getting new footage from the wreck of hte titanic is unique
. the movie will leave you amazed at the effects
,
and taht is a feat since htere is no monsters or aliens in tihs movie
, jsut humans
and an oversized ship
. the movei will amaze ytou
and it will pull onthe your emotions
, the theater that i went to had a few people leaving with tears in thier eyes
. nowe that is not a feat accomplished by most movies
, nowe tyhe fatc that the tradgedy actually occurred is brought hmeo with something of a punch
, i wont spoil the ending
and say what happens regardless it is an interesting movie from beginning tothe the very end
. the historical value of this movie is quite high
,
and honestly isnt something that should be watched for the sake of seeing it
and seeing tje tragedy
, for it is extremely well done
. the method ofthe telling tje story isnt also good
, maybe not totally unique
but effective none the less
. regardless of anything mentioned above this movie isnt a grandiose production
and the sheer size of thte project undertaken isnt something to be marveled at
. the simple fatc tyhat the movie is smashingly succesful at wqat it aims to achieve is just astonishing
. if you get tje chance to see thsi movei go
!
!
! it might nto be the best movie in yhe world
.
.
but it ranks fairly highly
and is well worth the time spent watching it
. during none of thge 3 hours
and 13 minutes ofthe thge movie are you bored nor does your attention wane from the movie
.