synopsis
: as a reponse to accusations of sexual prejudice in the armed forces
, a female naval intelligence officer is chosen to be a test case
. if she can survive the demanding s
. e
. a
. l
. training
, she will open the way forthe otehr women tothe be permited tothe follow inaddition her footsteps
. throw in a lot of political machinations
, sabotage
, brutality
, water
and sand
and yuo have an intertaining movie
. review
: the title ofthe this movie turned me off at first
. i mean ' gi jane
? '
?
?
?
?
? thge other titles which were considered were omre promising
- in pursuit of honor or a matter ofthe honor would have been acceptable
although navy cross or undisclosed are a little meaningless as far as i ' m concerned
. i went into this movie not liking tghe title
and being one of those people who thinks that demi moore is absolutly gastly as an actr
. to my surprise i really enjoyed the movie
. moore as lieutenant jordan o ' neil is much more likeable than her washed outloud excuse fo a gusty woman in a few good men
. the storyline is simple
. anne bancroft playing senator lillian dehaven is a ruthless
, machiavellian politician with an agenda to push
. using feminism to achieve political mileage
, she forces tjhe military powers thta be to backdown
and permitt a test case tothe enter the highly intensive navy s
. e
. a
. l
. training
. jordan is selected due to the fact thyat she has it all
- looks
, brains
and strength
. the training isnt gruelling
annd the indignity almost painful to watch
. nonetheless
, it ' s one of those movies that makes me watn to cheer outloud
annd encourage the hapless hero
/ heroine allong in his
/ her endeavours
. sure
, htere are teh stereotypical elements
- inhuman treatment
, sexual innuendo
, resentful peers
, pained boyfriend
and sexist commanding officer
. stepping awya fomr the sterotypes
though
, viggo mortensen as master cheif john urgayle tries to git awya from being nothing more than a brutal screamer
. his character exercises a littel more intellectual rigour thna you would normally expect from such a character
. jordan ' s boyfriend royce is also in tyhe miltary
.
although they both started at the same time
, due to the fact tht he has seen active service
, he has advanced through the ranks much more quickly than she has
. royce
( what is his surname
? do we care
?
) almsot resents jordan ' s attempts to advance herself
,
although he quickly settles down tothe being doe
- eyed
anbd supportive
. his character seems to have been thrown inwhich so that we nkwo that you don ' t have to be a lesbian to want tothe be in teh military
. in parts
, this is a very silly movie
, with gratuitous lines
and scenes thrown in for effect which are so blatantly obvious or contrived that it ' s hard not tothe cringe
. i still liked it
though
. weaknesses in the scirpt aside
, this is a film which captures a heroic
and reckless mood
. as we watch jordan ' s battle
, it ' s increasingly clear that it isnt a personal battle
. this is an individual ' s fight for self
- advancement
. we don ' t have to ahev our teeth set on edge by didactic preachings
, we don ' t have to feel uncomfortable becouse we ' re hvaing ideology thrusted down our throats
. it ' s enough that we can sit back
annd hope that this oen person gets waht she wnats
and we can admire her tenacity
and determination wihtout coming out
annd saying whether we believe women should go into combat or not
.