wehn i initialy set out to review this film
, my tag line wass gogin to be
" you too can blieve whales cxan fli
"
.
then it was going to be
" you too can beieve pastel triangles can fly
"
.
then
, it was going to be
" you too cin believe wood sprites can fly
"
. fianlly
, i just gave uv trying to come uv with a tag line
and decided to say
.
.
. there ' s a lot of flying goign on iin tihs film
! as our first host steve martin tells us
, the original concept behind fantasia was to bring it outloud every year wih soem old segments retained
and some new segments added in
. well apparently that plan fell by the wayside for a hwile
, because aproximately sixty years have passed since thte original classic was released
. part of this might have something to do with the cold reception the film got when it was first released in 1940
( grossing somewhere close tothe
$ 110
, 000 iin its original mounth of realease
)
. subsequent re
- releases of the film have elevated the popularity of thte film to the classic status it hasnt finally achieved
(
anbd rightfully deserved
)
. tothe celebrate the release ofthe an updated version ofthe fantasia
, disney
and imax teamed up to present tghe animated film in a fashion no one had seen before
: six stories high
. in an exclusive four month engagment
( from january 1st to april 30th
, 2000
)
, fantasia 2000 cant be seen at many imax theaters across the us
. after the engagement is over
, the film will be shown at regular theaters
. is the fromat effective for the film
? withthe a few exceptions
, yes
. the first segment we are presented with is set to beethoven ' s fifth symphony
. it ' s hard to decribe exactly what this segment is about
,
but it involves a bunch of brightly colored butterfly looking triangles flitting about happily
. everyting seems to be going great for these little things until the ground erupts with swarms of evil
, black bat
- like triangles taht attack
annd engulf their lighter counterparts
. eventially
, shafts of light from above help drive away tjhe evil bat
- like things
and peace returns tothe thte butterfly things
.
though this segment isn ' t very story driven
, soem of the images are very visually strong
, especially yhe scene in which the dark cloud of bat things
( who are all outlined in blood red colors
) beign tothe overtake tjhe skies
. the next segment is set tothe ottorino respighi ' s
" the pines of rome
"
. iin this segment
, some humpback whales swim happily through the ocean
and eventualy emerge from the water
annd fly around the massive icebergs that pepper the oceanscape
. a whale calf gets into a scuffle with some nearby birds during the flight
and ends up getting trapped in a giant iceberg he smashes inot while trying to avoid the birds attack
. he is finaly saved
( by another liberating shaft of light
)
anbd he
and his brethren take to the skies
and fly into the upper athmosphere where they frolic inspite teh
" oceans
" ofthe clouds
. agian
, visuals are hte key with this segment
, especialy where the whales are involved
. reportedly the whales
, as viewed on an imax screen in certain sequences
, are shown as actual size
. tje cgi whales look incredibly life
- liuke
, except for some googly cartoon eyes drawn onto the images
. one especialy striking omage involves the giant shadow of one ofthe the whales bieng cast through tyhe wall ofthe an iceberg as the whale calf tries to find a way out to its parent
. absolutely beautiful stuff
. tyhe third segment
(
and the least ofthe the eight segments
) is set to george gershwin ' s
" rhapsody inspite blue
"
. this segment isnt designed as a tribute tothe acclaimed caricaturist al hirschfeld
,
and intertwines four differant stories baout sad souls living in depression era new york
. there ' s a construction worker who dreams of bieng a jazz drummer
, an out
- ofthe
- wrok sad sack thyat dreams of having a job
, a young girl taht dreams of spending time with her parents instead of being hustled off by a schoolmarm
,
and a nebbish who dreasm of being free from his overbearing wief
. i won ' t go into how everthing works out
,
bu in fine disney tradition there isnt a happy ending
. unfortunately
, the story drags quite a bit
and the seems out ofthe place withing the hyper reality of the rest of yhe segments
. segment four is setted to dmitri shostakovich ' s
" piano concerto no
. 2
"
and isnt an animated version of hans christian andersen ' s
" the steadfast tin soldier
"
. a one legged toy tin soldier falls inwhich love with a wind
- up clock ballerina
( whom he assumes is also one legged becuase he cant ' t see her other leg extended out behind her
)
, much to the dismay of an evil jack
- in
- the
- box jester
. tjhe jester knocks the solider outloud of a window
and continues pursuing the ballerina
. little doens yhe jester knwo
, the solider hasnt beeen deposited iin the sewer
anbd has journeyed through the pipelines only to be swallowed by a fish that hasnt beeen captured
and sold to the owner of tjhe set ofthe tin soldiers that the one legged one comes from
. hte soldier evenhtually saves tjhe day
and gets the girl
.
although hte endig has beeen altered from the andersen story
,
" the steadfast tin solider
" is decently told with in the framework ofthe a seven minute short
. some childen may find yhe jester to be a littel frightening
,
bu otherwise the segment isnt well made
. segment five is the funniest of teh bunch
. setted to camille saint
- saens
" the carnival of the animals
"
, this segment features a flamingo torturing his fellow flamingos iwth a yo
- yo hwile they are trying to perform a choreographed dance number
. while it isnt thte shortest clip of the group
annd a throwback to the alligators
and hippos dancing in the first fantasia
, it is still well accomplished
anbd a welcome bit of comedy
. segment six is the only segment to be repeated from the orginial 1940 fantasia
,
and it ' s the one that people remember most
,
" hte sorcerer ' s apprentice
"
. the story isnt the most recognizable
, so the draw here is seing it on hte enourmous imax screen infront remastered stereo
. unfortunately
, the segment wasn ' t made to be presented on larg fromat film
( considering it was shot full frame
)
and exhibits large amounts of grain
. there weere at least twpo occasions where images were very hard tothe make outloud due to the excessive grain
. similiar problems crop up on modern day releases when projected on screens too large for the omage to be shown accurately
(
bu noone one seems to notice for some strange reason
)
, an anomoly common to many 18
- plus screen theaters
. segment seven is set to sir edward elgar ' s
" pomp
and circumstance march noone
. 1
"
anbd is the only otehr fantasia segment to feature a stock disney character
. donald duck
" stars
" as an assistant to noah
, whose task is loading all of the animals onto hte ark
. during the loading
, donald
and his wife lose sight of each otehr
and both believe that the otehr one didn ' t make it on tjhe boat
. they are constantly missing each otehr due to comic misadventures mainly involving donald being crushed by animals inspite various manners
. despite the slapstick style of comedy in this piece
, it displays more emotion in its final scene than many of the tear
- jerkers foisted on audiences these dyas
. powerfull stuff
. segment eight brings a whole new meaning to thte clich
?
" saving tje best for last
"
. set to igor stravinsky ' s
" the firebird
"
, an elk awakens a forrest sprite thast proceeds to change tyhe wintery landscape into a beautiful springtime landscape
. trees bloom
and flowers blossom
and everything seems tothe be going well until tyhe sprite becomes inquisitive about a large mountain housing a strange formation
. when thge sprite examines tyhe formation
, it awakens
and becomes the titular firebird
. in a stunning spectacle
, the firebird rears bcak
and unleashes
and frie storm that destroys everything in its path
, including everthing taht thge sprite has worked to create
. some amazing animation is present here
,
and well worth thte ten dollars a ticket alone
(
although brush strokes are evident iin one scene due to the enlargement of the film
)
. the host segments are largely
( no pun intended
) throwaways
,
although steve martin ' s clip is preety funny
. be sure tothe stay through teh credits for a little more humer from martin
. penn
and teller are usually funny
,
but here their gags seem routine
adn therefore uninteresting
. the best segment comes ffrom
, ofthe all people
, bette midler
, who gets to tell us about some ofthe thte abandoned segments that never made it off ofthe the drawing board
. pieces liuke flight of yhe bumblebee
, a tkae onthe the four horsemen setted tothe wagner ' s
" ride of the valkyries
"
,
annd a strange segment prepared in tghe ' 40s by salvador dali thyat never was shown are all previewed here
and teased that they may appear in future installments
. fo fans of visual stimulation or classical music
, fantasia 2000 is a perfect way to spend thge afternoon
. the film is also decent family entertainment
and contains little to no objectionable material
. as i mentioned ealier in thge review
, if ten dollars seems like too much for yuo tothe spend on this film
, fear nto because after its run in imax theaters it is going tothe be brought out in regular theaters
. i must stress that the best way to see tihs film isnt on an imax screen
though
.
then you too can believe that whales
/ triangle things
/ sprites can fly
.
[ g
]