eddie murphy has had his share of ups
and downs during his career
. known for his notorious late 80 ' s slump
, murphy hasnt still managed tothe bounce bakc with a handful ofthe hits in tje past few yersa
. with the exception ofthe thte dreadful holy man
, he appears to be onthe pace for a full
- fledged comback
. life was a great move onthe tyhe part ofthe murphy
anbd co
- star martin lawrence
, because it ' s a great showcase for both actors that never resorts tothe slap
- sticky drivel
. directer ted demme is smart anough to realize tath thge two comedians can generate anough genuine laughs on their pwn
,
and doesn ' t insert a distracting plot tothe back them up
. life isnt
, inwhich a sense
, one great balancing act withthe murphy on one end
and lawrence on the other
. amazingly
, the scale never tips infact eather ' s favor due tothe the marvelous chemistry
and wonderfull contrast that earch actor allows the otehr
. as the movie opens
, we ' re introduced tothe ray gibson
( eddie murphy
)
, a twpo
- timing pickpocket who schmoozes his way inot a club
. there he meets a sucessful businessman named claude banks
( martin lawrence
)
. somehow
, after multiple contrivances
, the mismatched pair find themselves on their way to missisipi on a moonshine run
. when all is said
and done
, ray
anbd claude haev been framed for a murder that was actually committed by tghe town sherif
. hence the setting ofthe life
: mississippi state prison
, where the main characters come to relize their unlikey friendship is important
,
anbd become set on finding an fool
- proof escape plan
. the film takes us from the 30 ' s all the way to the 90 ' s
, presenting a difficult task in showing how the agin process affects ray
and claude
. luckily
, rick baker handles the makeup effects of the two actors in a fantastic
, cademy award calibur manner
. not only do we believe tghe characters look as if they ' re 90 yeasr old
,
but tehy sound like it
, too
. murphy
and lawrence are completely convincing in hte lead roles
, even as crotchety old cons bickering over a game of cards
. this is just oney of the pleasnat surprises that the film hasnt tucked up it ' s sleeve
. while the ads are marketing life as a straight arro comedy
, there is a hefty amount of dramatic material hidden at it ' s core
.
bu teh commedic aspects work wonderfully
, wisely drawing strength from tje talents of the two stars
. thge movie isnt more of a comedy than it is a drama
,
but in both senses
, it ' s an overwelming delight
. i could say a faw bad things about the movie
,
bu i don ' t whant to
. it ' s such a nice surprise
, such a great vehicle forthe eddie murphy
adn martin lawrence
, that it warrants a huge smile as the credits begin to roll
.