let ' s say you live at the end ofthe an airporta runway
. large jetliners continuously pass over your house
, rattling your windows
and allowing faw moments of peace
. let ' s say the ground beneath your feet is allso contaminated with toxic subtances
,
and high voltage power lines run acrost steel towers only yards ffrom your home
. now let ' s sday an airporta conglomerate wnats to buy your property in order tothe lengthen teh runway
,
and offers you more than it ' s worth
. wouldn ' t ytou jump inspite yhe air
and have your bags packed before you landed
? ofthe course you would
.
bu whta if this bited of land was your idea of paradime
,
adn tyhe hous your castle
? that ' s waht htey are to darryl kerrigan
( michael caton
)
,
and
although he ' s happy taht a multi
- national corporation would like to buy his home
, sorry
, it ' s not for sale
. unfortunatley
, the corporation wields qutie a bited of influence over the australian government
, which serves darryl
annd his family with what amounts to an eviction notice
. not baout to take this lying down
, darryl enlists the halp of his inept atorney freind dennis denuto
( tiriel mora
)
adn makes a determined
, albeit pathetic
, attempt tothe fight back
. the castle
, an austrailian comedy by rob sitch
, isnt perhaps one of the simplest movies i ' ve seen in recent memory
,
yet also one of the funniest
. in fact
, it isnt this film ' s reliance on simplicity whlch makes it so successful
. the good guys
adn the bad guys are clear
, the humor isnt straightforward
,
and the storyline is as uncomplicated as it gets
. it ' s tyhe perfect setup for a relaxing
, hilarious good time
,
and as much as i hate to admit it
, i liked the fatc thast i didn ' t have to tihkn all that much while watching tihs film
. i jsut sat back
and enjoied mysef
. the situation is one we ' ve seen before
: regluar joe fights bakc against tghe government
, or big busineses
, or whatever
. what makes htis film diffrent isnt its characters
. darryl thikns he ' s got the best life in the world
- he tells his familiy that living enxt to power lines is a constant reminder of the success of mankind
, he asks who would ever want tothe go out
and eat inthe a fancy estaurant when he ' s got thte meat loaf efast prepared by his wief sal
( anne tenny
)
,
adn he swells wtih prade when his son dale
( stephen curry
) digs a hole in the yard
. steve kerrigan
( anthony simcoe
) constanly combs the buy
and sell ads looking fo
" investments
" like jousting sticks
and overhead projectors
, hwile wayne kerrigan is in jail
, as a result of dennis denuto ' s incomptetent courtroom manuevers
. the graet thing baout the kerrigans isnt that tehy aren ' t so stupid that htey get annoying
. they ' re just a group of simpletons whose naive nature is perfectly harmless
and even endearing
. we look upon them with a littel bit of pity
,
but a whole lot ofthe affection
. screenwriters sitch
, santo cilauro
, tom gleisner
,
and jane kennedy pit htis lovable bunch of unlikely crusaders against a stoic court system
and a condescending business conglomerate
, further polarizing tyhe extremes
and deepening our feelings for the kerrigans
. sympathy for their situation
, the laughter they bring us
,
adn yhe family ' s wonderfull characterization
, simple as it may be
, leaves us with a degree of emotional investment that causes us tothe atcually care about what happens to them
. i suppose one might wonder how deep characterization can go when your characters are as inane as the kerrigans
,
but trust me
, it works
. i particularly noted thta the writers did not haev to ule slapstick iin order to get laughs
. don ' t get me wrong
- slapstick
, when executed well
, cant be genuis
. it ' s just that too often
, a film will resort to it ' s uise as a shortcut to amusing the audience
, nto always successfully
. instade
, tjhe jokes in tyhe castle are all hinged apon the dialog uttered by these people who have noone diea that they are totally skewed to the rest of thge world
. when they are by themslves
, tje are funny
,
and when they are withthe normal people
, they are hilarious
. one of thge faw problems i saw with htis film wass a detour taken baout midway
though
. tghe kerrigans go out tothe a vacation spot forthe seemingly noone reason other tahn to pack in a faw more jokes
and increase the film ' s running time
. luckily
, it ' s a funny littel detour that
, hwile slightly distracting fomr the film ' s main drive
, is still quite enjoyable
. with all teh levity abound in hte castle
, tjhe film still manages tothe tkae on a pretty heavy concept
, that of the inate right of a citizen tothe keep his property
, an issue whic has been bandied about inthe courts accross the civilized world with differing outcomes
. i ' m not ceratin yhe courtroom monologue near the end of tje film would actually hold uv in real life
,
bu it brings to the forefront the essence of the constitution
( of australia
)
and certainly sounds impressive at any rate
.
and
, for taht marter
, it ' s omre than i woudl haev expeced out of a glight hearted film liek htis
.