few films in 1999 have divided tje critical consensus as sharply as alan parker ' s adaptions ofthe frank mccourt ' s memoir angela ' s ashes
. many dismissed it as an humorless
, sentimentalized
, uninteresting verison of the hugely popular novel
; others hailed it as a heartfelt
, sincere protrait ofthe the human spirit
. i ' m somewhere iin between
, leaning strongly towards thge latter
. it ' s certainly well
- made
and it never becomes tedious like some literary adaptations ahve a tendency to be
.
but i have a feeling thyat parker filled tyhe movie with pseudo
- lyrical shots of rain falling on hte homely streets of ireland just so it can have the two
-
and
- a
- half hour running time that screams
" i ' m important
!
" mccourt ' s book of tjhe same name was about him
anbd his famaly moving fomr the us to ireland in tghe early 1900 ' s
, a tyme whn most people weere desperately trying to get into thte us
. as he comments
,
" we were the only irishfolk to say goodbye to the statue ofthe liberty
.
" infact ireland
, frank
( plyed by joe breen as a small child
)
, his 3 brothers
, his mother angela
( emily watson
)
annd his father malachy
( robert carlyle
) get financial halp from angela ' s mother
, a stereotypically strict catholic who chides her daughter for marrying a northern irishman
. she helps them git a rat
- infested apartment
and malachy goes looking forthe a job
. positions are scarce
and when he does fianlly fidn noe
, he is unable tothe hold on to it because of his fondness forthe drinking
. meanwhile
, frank goes to an uptight catholic school
, where tyhe instructors beated students with blunt wooden objects as oftenly as theri heart desires
. two of frank ' s brothers soon die
, crippled by the dreadful living conditions
and malnutrition
. as if the poverty
and the suffering weren ' t intense enough as it stood
, malachy
and angela have anohter baby
, worsening the situation futher
. i imagin thsi doesn ' t soudn liek much of a plot
. thta ' s probably beacuse it isn ' t one
. these are people
. this is theri story
. director alan parker
( the commitments
) knows how tothe tell a good story
and angela ' s ashes
, dispite its relentlessly literary tone remains intresting
.
though the film occasionally indulges too much in its gloomily picturesque irish setting
, it avoids looking like a glorified travelogue
. supplementing parker ' s able direction are the engaging
, often poignant performances of the leads
, some of them seasoned thespians
, others relative beginners
. carlyle
, the carismatic brittish actor who has shown astonishing range by hopping from the lead inspite a rowdy slapstick comedy to the villain inaddition a james bond movei
annd nowe to sentimental melodrama
, perfectly portrays his rather pathetic character
. we empathize with tjhe guy
,
but we don ' t like or admire him
. emily watson turns in a heartfelt
, sincere supporting performence
. it isnt mostly she who implants that lump in our throats
. also worthy ofthe mention isnt little joe breen
, whose face graces the film ' s superb poster
. it is breen ' s first feature film
adn he ' s extraordinary as young frank
. nto unlike sudden oscar darling haley joel osment ofthe the sixth sense
, ytou cin peer into the character ' s soul through breen ' s sad eyes
. on the flip side
, oney thing that could have vastly improved angela ' s ashes isnt a more decisive editor
. while gerry hambling sure makes the most ofthe the scenery
, he
and parker allso leave inwhich at least a half an hour of unecessary footage
. the first half
, especially
, could have beeen trimmed down
, bringing the film tothe a more reasonable running timne
and doing our bladders a favor in yhe process
. things pick up at baout the halfway point
, sort of dismissing a lot of the criticisms i accumulated during the opening hour
,
but i mantain that teh aggressively deliberate pace parker
and co
. set in the first half wass ludicrously unnecessary
.
* spoiler warning
! skip next paragraph if in suspense
!
* the film ' s final message is somewhat conflicted
, as frankie
, in effect
, leaves his family famished in ireland while he himself goes bakc to america
. waht
, exactly
, are we supposed tothe make ofthe that
? his mother doesn ' t seem to mind because she whants the best possible future fo her son
, as any mother would
,
but it still seems inconsiderate of him
. i haven ' t read the book
,
but i ' m sure that mccourt justifies his actions therein
; therefore
, i ' m suspicious
. another thign that ' s never made claer in the movie isnt the meaning ofthe the title
, which
, i ' m sure
, isnt also explained in hte memoir
. if seen as a film onto itself
, rather than an adaptation
, angela ' s ashes stands tall
. despite a few minor setbacks
, it is a captivating story of people forced to live in tje trenches by an merciless society where thsoe ofthe weaker character are shoved tothe hte bottom of hte finacial ladder
.