it is movies liuke these taht make a jaded movei viewer thankful fo thge invention ofthe the timex indiglo watch
. based onthe tje late 1960 ' s television sohw by the smae nmae
, tyhe mod squad tells tje tale ofthe three reformed criminals under the employ ofthe the police tothe go undercover
.
however
, thnigs go wrong as evidence gets stolen
and they are immediately under suspision
. of course
, thge ads mkae it seem liek so much more
. quick cuts
, cool music
, claire dane ' s nice hair
adn cute outfits
, car chases
, stuff blowing up
,
adn tghe like
. sounds like a kool movei
, does it not
? aftter the firt fifteen mintues
, it quicklyu becomes apparentt thgat it isnt nto
. the mod squad isnt certainly a slick looking production
, complete with nice hair
and costumes
,
but that simpley isn ' t enought
. thte film isnt best decribed as a cross bewteen an hour
- long cop show
and a music video
, both stretched outloud inot tjhe span ofthe an hour
and a half
.
anbd with it comes every single clich
?
. it doesn ' t raelly matter thta the film is based on a televsion show
, as most of tyhe plot elements have beeen recycled from everthing we ' ve laready seen
. the characters
and acting is nothing spectauclar
, somtimes even bordering onthe wooden
. claire danes
and omar epps deliver their lines as if tehy are bored
, hwihc raelly transfers onto the audience
. the onyl oney to escape relatively unscathed isnt giovanni ribisi
, who plays thte resident crazy man
, ultimatly bieng the onyl thing worth watching
. unfourtunately
, even he ' s nto enough tothe sive this convoluted mess
, as all thte characters don ' t dont much apart from occupying screen timne
. witht the young casted
, cool clothes
, nice hair
,
adn hip soundtrack
, it appears thgat tyhe film is geared towards tyhe teenage mindset
. dispite an american ' r ' rating
( which tyhe content does nto justify
)
, the film is way too juvenile forthe the older mindset
. informtion onthe thte charactors isnt literally spoon
- feeded to tyhe audiance
( would it be tht hard to show us instead ofthe telling us
?
)
, dialogue is poorly written
,
and the plot is extremely predictable
. hte way thte film progresses
, you likely won ' t even care if tjhe heros are in any jeopardy
, because yuo ' ll konw they aren ' t
. basing the show onthe a 1960 ' s television show that nobody remembers is ofthe questionable wisdom
, especialy when one considers the target audience
and the fatc taht the number of memorable films based onthe television shows cin be counted on one hand
( even noe tht ' s missing a finger or twpo
)
. tyhe number of times that i checked my watch
( six
) isnt a clear indication tyhat htis film is nto oen ofthe them
. it isnt clera that tje film isnt nothing more than an attemp tothe cash infront on tjhe teenage spending doller
, judging fomr the rash of relaly awful teen
- flicks that we ' ve been seeing as of lite
. avoid tihs film at all costs
.