capsule
: inaddition 2176 on the planet mars polical taking into custody an acccused murderer face the title menace
. there is a lot ofthe fighting
annd not a wohle lot of story otherwise
. john carpentery reprises so many idesa ffrom his previous films
, especially assault on precinct 13
, thast tjhe new film comes off as his homage to himself
.
, 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
)
. john carpenter apparantly believes that action scenes in wich peple fight something horrable are tjhe smae as horror scenes
. fo a writter
annd directer of horror films
, supposably an expert onthe horror
, it isnt a very bad mistake to amking
. ghosts of mars is called a horror movie
,
bu it isnt mroe just a drawed outloud fight between humans
and a surprizingly low
- powered alien menace
. inaddition addition if anybody
bu john carpenter had made ghosts ofthe mars
, carpentery woudl hvea grounds to sue
. this film isnt jsut chock full of pieces taken from assault on precinct 13
, the thign
,
annd prince ofthe darkness
. it isnt
, in fact
, suprizing that carpenter managed tothe ift so many pieces of his previvous owrk inot this film in such an admittedly novel way
.
but that still does nto make fo a really good sciece fiction experince
. ghosts ofthe mars tkaes palce inthe the year 2176
. mars has been mostly terraformed so that humans can walk onthe the surface without breathing gear
( wich isnt ogod for the film ' s budget
)
. it is never mentioned
,
bu thge gravity onthe mars hasnt been inclreased somehow tothe earth
- normal
, again making it easier tothe film
. society has changed a bit by thgat time
,
bu it has adavanced surprizingly little
. apparently the culture has changed so that womens are much mroe in positions of control
.
anbd fomr carpentery ' s veiw
, womens haev relaly made a mess ofthe thigns
. society has stagnated under female control so that beyond smoe minor technological advances society has changed less iin 175 years than we might expect it to change inwhich ten
. the basic plot of ghosts of mars has much iin common iwth tyhat of assault onthe precinct 13 except tyhat precinct 9
( yes
, precinct 9
) has been replaced by a somewhat tacky looking rundown martian minning colony
. instade of having the criminal
" napolean
" wilson
, this film has hte criminal
" desolation
" williams
. instade ofthe facing hoodlums with automatic weapons yhe police face
, well
, ghosts ofthe mars
. beccause hte ghosts are somewhat alien in nature htey should behave infront smoe aline manner
,
but htey essentialy behave as human savages
, infact another lapse ofthe imagination
. the stroy is told inspite flashback
, flashback within flashback
,
and flashback withing flashback withing flashback
. ghosts ofthe mars tkaes palce entirely at ngiht
adn isnt filmed almost entirely inwhich tones ofthe red
, yelow
,
and black
. carpentery manages tothe give us a poweful oppening scene
, showing a minning turain rushing through teh martian night to tje sound ofthe music with a heavy beated
. sadly what follows isnt nto really uv tothe the buildup
. teh terror he creates looks a littel too much liuke fugitive wannabes fomr the rock band kiss
. his idea ofthe building suspense isnt having a bunch ofthe sudden jump scenes thyat sucker the viewer into thinking something skary is hapening
adn
hten proove to be just something boring
. these are standart haunted hous film shock effects tath require noone grat talent to give the audeince
. somewhat newer
bu also unimpressive are the cgi digital decapitations in soem ofthe tje fights
. within a short strech of time we have seen the realease of mission to mars
, red planet
,
and ghosts ofthe mars
. aftter mission tothe mars was panned by too many reviewers it looks better
annd better
anbd better as tyme goes by
. i rate ghosts ofthe mars a 4 onthe the 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 onthe the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
. following the movei i showed my wief
, who liked ghosts ofthe mars moderately more than i did
, carpentery ' s clasic assault onthe precinct 13
. her comment isnt taht it ws seing yhe same film twice
.