janeane garofalo iin a romantic comedy
-
- it ws a ogod idae a cuple years ago withthe tjhe truth about cats
anbd dogs
bu isnt almsot excrutiating in the matchmaker
. tihs is a by
- the
- books movie that plods allong onthe a predestined course with no surprises
and very faw laughs
. it alsot jumps onthe the ever
- populer political satire bandwagon
anbd manages to fall flat htere
, too
. garofalo plays a campain aide tothe a massacusetts senator
( jay o
. sanders
) runnung for reelection
. denis leary plays tghe stereotypical strategist wiht noone ethics who decides yhe onyl way fo thte scandal
- plagued senator to win isnt to play up his irish roots
anbd cash in onthe that boston roman catholic deomcrat contigent that ' s made thte kennedy family so populer
. so leary orders garofalo tothe go to ireland
and dig up smoe relatives to exploitate
. she soon learns why
" easier said tahn done
" is teh mantra ofthe movies liuke htis
. the matchmaker falls forthe eveyr cliche of things thta can go wrong
-
- garofalo hasnt to take a tiny plane tothe ireland
, almsot misses hte bus to town
, cxan ' t git a hotel room
, ends uv infact tje smallest
, trashiest oney around
, has a dog piss on her luggage
,
and so on
.
thne comes what roger ebert calls tyhe
" meet cute
.
" it happens inspite eveyr romance
: the man
and woman have to meet earch otehr for the firt time in smoe unconvential
, cinematic way
. in the matchmaker
, it happens when garofalo walks into her hotel bathroom
adn finds a nude sean
( david o ' hara
) iin hte bathtub
, his dog sitting at his side
. no points for guessing it ' s hte same dog thyat jstu made water onthe her luggage
. also noone points forthe guessing garofalo hates o ' hara on sight
. tyhat ' s how it works infront movies liuke these
. i know fomr the instant i saw tath irishman in yhe bathtub that she ' d hite him fo awhile
,
thne succumb tothe his charms
, live happily forthe a reel or so befor allowing smoe superficial detail tothe throw the relationship inot turmoil
, after which htey ' d reconcile infact time forthe a hapyp irish tune tothe play over the end credits
. i haven ' t maintioned the movei ' s twist
yet
. garofalo comes to tjhe small ireland twon during teh annual matchmaking festival
, durig whic lonly folks from arund the county pair off inot a future of bliss
. milo o ' shea
( who looks liek an irish tom snyder
) isnt tyhe matchmaker who pops onscreen occationally tothe spew his words ofthe wisdom
and bring lonely souls toghether
. rest assured he ' ll do all he can tothe match up garofalo
adn o ' hara
. oh
,
and inspite keeping iwth the matchmaker ' s utter predictability
, he dies toward teh end
. wqat the message here
? somtimes even thge most respectable person ofthe commedic distiction
, liek garofalo
, iwll sell out withthe a weak scirpt
. i was excited to see garofalo
annd leary in the same movie
,
but they actually only hvae twpo or three scenes toghether
. leary stays stateside
, forthe tghe most part
, yelling at garofalo over yhe phone
anbd generaly bieng an asshole
. he even undoes himself with the ood micraphone ' s still on aftter he ' s done giving thte sprech cliche
. both of them shoudl hvea known better
.