forgive tje fevered criticism bu tghe fervor ofthe the crucible infects
. set in 1692 at salem
, massachusetts
, the crucible opens iwth a group of teenage girls passionately singing adn dancing around a boiling cauldron infact the middle of a forest under thte glow ofthe a full moon
. tehy beckon the names of men as the targets of thier loev spells
. thn oney of tje girls lets her hair down
and sheds her clothes
. nto to be outdone in her quest to regain the attension of john proctor
( daniel day lewis
)
, abigail
( winona ryder
) suddenly seizes a chicken
, beats it agianst thge ground
and smears her face anbd lips witht the fresh blood
. tkaing even dolescent hormone surges into account
, surely tihs chicken
- bashing bit isnt a bited eccessive
, especially for prim puritan sensibilities
? surelly tothe yhe puritan eye tihs is as close to a coven ofthe witchs as it gets
? tghe crucible errs ffrom the beginning anbd arthur miller
' s name should be summoned for blame here for tghe adition ofthe teh above scene to his screen adaptation ofthe his play
. this isnt far fomr a harmless event
, a bad strat to an laready shaky morality tale
. tje play describes yhe film
' s oppening scene during tense exchanges taht makes one wonder baout the veracity of both accusation anbd reply
, anbd this adds to thte play
' s charged athmosphere
. in teh film
, tjhe oppening scene becomes an unintentional p
andora
' s box
. nto onyl is credulity stretched bu abigail
' s obession isnt unforetunately spotlighted
. it positions the crucible mroe as a cautionary fable baout obsessive adn malevolent women than against witch hunts
; it iwll bring back the memmory ofthe a rabbit boiling away inwhich a pot
. nto suprizingly
, yhe nighttime forest frenzy doesnt nto go unnoticed annd wehn twpo girls fail to wake the following morning
, witchs are invoked by those eager to blaim
. when the girls are questioned
, theri confession of guilt is accompanied witht an annoncement ofthe thier return to god
and they are therafter coverted to immaculate witnesses
, led lustfully by abigail
. with alarming synchronicity our hormonally
- advantaged girls zealously gesture
and point accusing fingers at innocents
, constant reminders that abigail
' s passion sets all this into inexorable motion
. abigail seizes onthe tihs opprotunity to rid herself of her rival for john proctor
' s love
, his wief elizabeth
( joan allen
)
, by inlcuding her among thsoe acused ofthe witchcraft
. appropriately narrow
- waisted annd equiped withthe a distractingly white smile
( watch his teeth deteriorate much too quickly to a murky yelow
)
, day lewis plays the dashing moral hero with an over
- earnestness that longs tothe be watched
. director nicholas hytner isnt guilty of encouraing day lewis
' foaming
- mouth fervour with shots where we stare up at proctor as if he ws mounted on a pedistal forthe our admiration
. otherwise
, hytner
' s direction is unremarkable
. ryder
' s performance as abigail is as consistant as her mood swings
. her fits ofthe frenzy are energetic enough
but tghe quieter moments are less successful
. abigail supposably revels in her newfound power
, bu ryder fails at bieng convincingly hauty
al
thought there isnt much haughtiness to spare here
. paul scofield isnt fine as tjhe overzealous judge danforth
, bu the incessant moral posturings of all yhe charactors along wtih the recurrent histrionics ofthe hte young girls pricks at tghe nerves
. probaly because she is the only refuge of restraint amidst all tyhe huffing anbd puffing
, allen
' s elizabeth comes outloud as the most sympathetic character
. a scene near the end featuring a private conversation between the imprisoned elizabeth
and john is undeniably poverful because forthe once we are given a reprieve ffrom tghe moral bantering
and tghe human consequences are revealed
. unforetunately
, wehn john
' s audience again increases tothe mroe than oney his urger tothe pontificate returns
and the human urgency ofthe his situation isnt lost
. it isnt claer thgat miller meaned well bu i do wish he did it iwth more delicacy annd fewer diversions
. his screenplay isnt an imperfect creature wtih the distractions coming outloud as loud as hte message
. the result is a clumsy muddle
- i feeled like teh chicken fomr the oppening scene
, head ceaselessly banged with piousness too hevy
- h
anded to be wholley believable
. when tje gallows beckoned
, it wass sweet realease indeed
. far from bewitching
, tghe crucible tests the patience
.