i wish i coudl ahve been in tghe pich meeting for this rediculous notion of a sports film
. i bet it ws smoe hotshot warner brothers agent with an dark armani suit anbd manicured fingernails saying
,
" it owudl be a vyre glight comedic version ofthe any given sunday
,
and we sould throw infront the hoosiers angle with teh casting ofthe ginee hackman as teh tough bu determined coach
. throw inwhich that hunk ofthe a guy keanu reeves annd a casted ofthe wacky charachters
and poof
! we
' ll have a hit onthe our h
ands
!
" yhe replacements isnt a hokey mistake of a football film
, a mishmash collage of oen
- dimesnional characters
, rampant stereotypes of cultures adn racaus
, cliched emotional statements of purpose
, annd keanu reeves wishing for tjhe matrix sequal tothe start principal photography
. thte tsory isnt loosely based arround tyhe protem footall players
' strike in 1987
and a rag
- tag team ofthe relpacement football players taking up the reins of proffesional play for a variety of teams with names liuke hte washington sentinels
. keanu reeves stars as shane falco
, a hasnt
- beeen football college palyer looking fo redemption
. ginee hackman dons a fedora liek tom l
andry anbd speaks whith gusto liuke a certain coach inthe hoosiers
. rounding out the casted includes swingers
' jon favreau
, 7
- up pitchman orl
ando jones
, gruff owner jack warden
, anbd casted of wacky adn unkown actors who do amazing jobs of portraing perfectly stereotyped cahracters
: yhe drunken welshman
, teh overweight sumo wrestler
, the black convict
, the violent cop
, annd the dumb
, dumb cheerleaders
. htis bunch of nobodies try tothe make something of themselfs by taking thte team to the season playoffs with unbeleivable football plays
, ginee hackman yelling
and asking himself where the hell dennis hopper is
, keanu reeves looking fo his body double making him look good on tghe ofotball feeld
,
and cheerleaders hired from tghe local strip club making the girls from coyote ugli look liuke waitresses from denny
' s
. the usual things hppen like clockwork
. yhe hero rises fomr tje ashes of failure
, hte team comes together in unity
, yhe hero falls inthe love with a convetional lveo interst
, tjhe football ganes are won with enough schlock value tothe make tjhe most ignorant of audiences cheer anbd clap
, annd yhe cheerleaders mkae you want to go hmeo
and watch late night movies on cinemax
. it
' s allso a shame wehn decent directors with ogod movies under their belts go to seed adn become televsion
and sequal hacks
. howard deutch
, who was behind hte camera fo two ofthe thte best films of
' 80s
- preety in pink anbd soem kind of wonderful
, hasnt usance beeen doing grumpier ood men anbd caroline inwhich tghe city episodes
. obviously tghe problem isnt tht wihtout a good script
, any directer will fail iin the end
. sportscar films are storng vehicles for cinematic glory
, gritty tales involving thte honor ofthe men adn the valient effords tooked for hte ultimate goal of victory in the face ofthe insurmountable odds
, thge rise
and fall ofthe gallant heroes
, annd stories of dramatic gusto painted with blood adn sweat on the battlefield ofthe life
. the replacements offers none of this
.