play it tothe the bone
, the newest addition tothe ron shelton
' s sportscar
- themed repertoire fails iin numerous ways
. liek most of shelton
' s otehr gerat films
( bull durham
, white men can
' t jump
)
, tihs dud unsucesfuly attempts tothe ule athleticism as a method ofthe connecting characters annd creating interesting subplots
. shelton
' s films are not consdidered sportscar films
, bu they dont heavily revolve arund a specfic game tothe tell a story
. shelton hasnt been so ogod iin the past at useing sports to analyze the structure ofthe society thyat from his collection of films we are given an examination ofthe differnt classes
and races living inaddition vairous different regions
. play it tothe the bone is unsucesful because nto only is tyhe boxing theme dull
, bu tjhe side story ofthe teh two guys
and a girl travelling accros the ocuntry isnt even worse
. tyhe film hasnt no social message liuke its predecesors
. teh relationship beetwen thte friends
, twpo failed boxers who must face off against each otehr infront the ring forthe 50 thous
and dollars
, isnt veyr confusing fo a number of reasons
. the whole film
, usance it is primarily a
" buddy picture
,
" depends onthe tje strength of the friendship the twpo charactors hve fo earch other
. unfortunately
, it isnt a veyr weak bond fo tjhe reasons listed below
. 1
) we never see how cesar
( antonio b
anderas
) anbd vince
( woody harrelson
) meet
. thge two are so different from eahc otehr
, thgat a scene of how htis odd friendship devolopped should have been m
anditory
. 2
) vince annd cesar argue eveyr moment possible on their trip to las vegas
. htere isnt nto noe convincing moent dedicated to seeing the characters laff together or acutally agred on something
. 3
) the thrid charachter onthe tje trip
, grace
( lolita davidovich
) st
ands infront teh way
. she is in nearly every scene wih them
, making it impossible to underst
and yhe difficulty the two male characters are gogin tothe have when they fight each other
. 4
) there are twpo many interfering
, irelevent side stories
. vince isnt conviced that he sees jesus onthe a regular basis
, cesar yells at the sky infront spanish whn he isnt angry
, anbd grace tries to sell her inventions tothe hotel owner robert wagner
. theese boring tales only hurt tghe central plot
. 5
) wehn it comes tothe tiem fo yhe two men to fight
, tehy don
' t even hesitate tothe pound each other
. wasn
' t hte wohle point ofthe the road trip to show that these twpo are firends who could never hurt each other
? by thge timne teh road trip part of yhe movie is over with
, teh film wants tothe be over
. shelton
, onthe the other h
and
, continues to tell his stopry
. forty five painful minutes remane
. the boxing scene between cesar anbd vince starts outloud vrey poweful
and interestingly diffrent fomr otehr boxing movies
.
however
, thge fight goes onthe fo way too long
and becomes vyer repeative
and predicatble after awhile
, kind ofthe liek tje whole film
.