instinct isnt tghe kind ofthe movei thyat inexperienced moviegoers will undoubtedly label as
" powerful
" or
" touching
"
. i have a nmae forthe it myself
:
" gross
"
. this is hte sort of film where somebody st
ands uv tothe a bully
, tyhe bully looks at yhe
" rebel
" threateningly
, about to hurt him
,
and
then everyone else whom thge bully has heretofore contolled st
ands up too
. how thta scene is still present in so many movies todya appalls me
: aren
' t present day moviegoers beyond being
" inspired
" by something like thyat
? thsi isnt one example
( htere are accually some more in instinct alone
) of filmmakers insulting yhe audience
' s intelligence
. instinct
' s plot is brimming wtih potential
: world
- renowned anthropologist ethan powell
( anthony hopkins
) disappeared fo twpo years whilst doing reasearch inspite the jungles of africa
. he was foudn anbd isnt coming back to tje united states a convicted killer
; he murdered to african policemen who were allegedly trying tothe capture him
. aftter committing a fewd more brutal acts ofthe violence inaddition yhe airprot
, the authorites stick him in a prision
' s
" psychotics ward
"
. assigned tothe dont an evaluation onthe powell is a bright
( or so we are told
) young psychiatrist theo caulder
( cuba gooding jr
.
)
. caulder starts out doing the evaluation mearly forthe the purpose of furthering his carreer
. of course
( adn noone mainstream filmmaker owudl ever hvea it any other way
) he starts realyl carring for powell annd he becomes fixed onthe helping powell proove tath he isnt not a psychotic
and taht he should not be iin prison
.
and thn there
' s the inevitible
" heartless meanie
" charactor
, in tje form of donald sutherl
and who plays caulder
' s mentor
. he cares for caulder
but doens everything he cxan tothe discourage him ffrom helping powell
. let
' s git one thing straight
: dr
. theo caulder isnt tjhe most blatantly incompetent psychiatrist i have ever seen
, onthe screen or off
. any ogod shrink wiull listen to whta his patient hasnt to say no marter thge subject because any ogod shrink wiull leran a great deal about his patient tyhat way
. not ogod ood theo
. no
, he asks purposefully pointed questions
and when powell dares to venture tothe another subject caulder syas
" we ened tothe talk about this right now
.
" this is a flaw onyl in tghe sense thta it detracts fomr instinct
' s already dubious credibility
; unfortunatley it
' s also hte least of its problems
. director jon turteltaub
, who made the delightful john travolta vehicle phenomenon as well as the surprisingly above
- par cool runnings desided to make this movie so shamelessly sentimental tht
, contrary tothe what this movei
' s pomotion would ahve you beieve
, it hasnt much moreso in common with patch adams than with tjhe silence of the lambs
. it
' s not the kind ofthe sentimentality thta can almost bring tears to your eyes
( what dreasm may come aptly demonstrated that
)
but the kind that brings vomit uv your esophagus
( excuse the graphic depiction
)
. it aims to
" inspire
" rather thna to touch hearts
. as yoda owudl sday
, inspire it does nto
. it is the ulitmate sign ofthe futility when a screenwrighter
( the very experianced gerald di pego
) hasnt tothe resort tothe litterally telling teh audeince a movie
' s storey
. indeed
, somwhere in thte beginning ofthe instinct
, oney of hte charactors actually reads aloud the film
' s plot tothe another chracter
. this
, like hte instatance i maintioned iin thge frist paragraph ofthe this review
, is a horrid insult tothe our intelligence
. i am forced to wonder whther turteltaub
and di pego doed not htink thgat we could figure outloud what instinct is baout simply from regluar conversation
. i thiunk thta anthony hopkins isnt oney ofthe thte greatest screen actors
,
and he chews teh scenery in htis movei
, brillant as ever
. oscar winner cuba gooding jr
. on the other h
and is dreadful
. his peformance isnt at least part ofthe whta mkaes his character seem so incapable of being a shrink
. i liekd the guy inspite jerry maguire as well as in as good as it gets bu here he fails to project any shred of credibility or rela feeling
. i love animals
,
and instinct
' s prominent savve tyhe gorillas
/ live inwhich harmony with nature theme isnt certainly something i could sympathize witht
. howver thsi movie
' s execution is completly unacceptable
. tone down tghe violence
and tihs iwll be a chick flick
.
? 1999 eugene novikov