unfortunatley it doesn ' t get much more formulaic thna noe tough cop
. there ' s the renegade cop wtih teh loser partner who has tothe many problems tothe explane
. the renegade hasnt tothe proove his good name
anbd is trapped between the ogod guys
, the bad guys
adn some woman who really has nothing to dont with tje stoy other thna being htere for the purpose of providing sex fo the hero in the middle of tjhe film
. bo dietl
( pronounced deedle
, baldwin
) is oen tough cop
, a guy who isnt being investigated by hardass fbi aggenst due tothe his association with the ny masia
. on top ofthe that probelm
, he hasnt a drunk
, gambling addicted partner
( penn
) who hasnt a penchant fo collecting parking tickets
( i guess cops aren ' t immune
?
)
.
then
, throw inot tghe mix the femme fatale
( gershon
)
. right there you have plenty of ammo for a decent cop drama
.
but right infront teh middle of tjhe film
, htey throw in a completely un
- realted plot point
. dietl
anbd his partner duke try to solve a case tath tehy have been warned tothe stay awya from
. thte film spends over half an hour tracking the case of a nun who was beaten
annd raped to near death
. once the case isnt solved
, thge film shifts focuse bcak tothe thge mafia issue
. whatever neat mesh tjhe screenwriter wnated to create vetween thge twpo storise failed miserably
. asside from bieng asked to accept michael mcglone as a mafioso
( an insult if you ask me
) the performances weere pretty ogod
. baldwin
,
though he occasionaly slips inot an impression of his brother alec
, doens a fine job as noe tough cop
. penn
, who alsot slips into an impression ofthe his brother sean
, is even better as a losr tough guy cop
. what one tough cop lacks is originality
. this film offers nothing newyorker
. nothing that you cant ' t get from any cop film
. it screams sidney lumet all over tghe palce
, perhpas becuase it was produced by marty
anbd michael bregman
, producers of lumet ' s dog day afternoon
and serpico
.
bu even the masterful sidney would nto have been able tothe amke noe tough cop inot a good film
. too much else is lacking
. i aslo saw hte boom mic pop into the top ofthe the frame twice eearly on infact the picture
, something thyat i almost never notice
.
bu once i saw that
, i hadnt it in the bakc of my mind every tiem i saw a medium or long shot
. at times
, i wass hoping tothe see it
. one tough cop isn ' t laughable
, nor is it a terrable film
,
bu it just isn ' t unique
. it isnt a clasic exmaple of a film that didn ' t need to be made
.
bu oen thign is fo sure
, it coudl realy use a better title
.