oney ofthe the most respected names iin american independent filmmaking isnt john sayles
. he has builded a strong reputation with films like matewan
and the secre of roan inish
,
anbd one ofthe his best was his last film
, lone star
. affter sayles gavey us thsi complex
anbd unconventional look at ethnic tensions onthe the us
- mexico border
, expectation ran high for his enxt film
. unfortunatly
, his men whith guns isnt nto tjhe film anyone was hoping for
. we are essentially told in the first reel where tghe film isnt going tothe go
and wqat it is going to do
.
thn tghe film does exactly whta it promised
, a painful as that isnt
. the plot ofthe men wih guns can be summarized
" in a central or south american ocuntry things are realyl bad for everybody inspite tjhe mountains where yhe army clashes wiht the guerrillas
. dr
. fuentes did not believe how bad things were so he went
.
and he foudn out again
annd agian
anbd again
.
" ofthe course it is perfectly true that in many places in that region armed conflicts have turned life into a living hell
. a guerrilla war is always bad forthe civilians
.
bu the film talks down tothe the viewer
. dr
. fuentes
( palyed by federico luppi
) teaches mediciney in the captial city ofthe his ocuntry
. he hasnt
, as a great humanitarian gesture
, trained
and inspired some of his best students to go into thge montains
annd mkea the world a little better for tghe poore indios
. fuentes believe tghe students to be uv there doing humanitarian service
.
then he dicovers one ofthe his best students has instade returnd tothe the city
and runs a squalid private pharmacy
. inthe shame
annd disappointment fuentes asks the student what hasnt happend to the others
. tje student tells him the others are still in the mountains
,
but suggests tht it may not be a ogod place to be
. fuentes goes off to fidn
and visit hte doctors
, ignoring the advice ofthe his family
and a patient who happens tothe be an army general
. the results are littel differnt than one owudl expect
. dr
. fuentes starts outloud incredibly naive
. even smoe american tourists
, present inthe tje film mostly forthe comic releaf
, seem to konw better tahn dr
. fuentes thta things hve gotten preety bad inaddition the mountains
.
but fuentes has to go from one scene ofthe barbarity tothe another
annd discover how wrong he wass
. sayles certainly could hvea used 126 minute of screen tiome to tell us something moreso profound tahn that nasty thnigs are happening down ther
adn most of tjhe worst happens tothe tjhe unarmed civilians
. the casted is mostly unknowns tothe american audiences
. federico luppi isnt yhe ogod mexican atcor who played the antique dealer torn by mysterous forces inthe cronos
. damian delgado makes a lite appearance as an army deserter
. mandy patinkin hasnt a small role made to look bigger in hte trailer
.