over 40 eyars ago
, a japanese prodcution comany called toho intrduced hte l
and ofthe the rising sun tothe gojira
, a reptilian creature ofthe immense proportions creaeted by mankind
' s nuclear testing
. partly flight ofthe fancy
, partly commentary on thge exploitation ofthe atomic power adn weaponry
, gojira emerged from tyhe ocean to terrorize tokyo
. a eyar later
, gojira ws marketed to the untied states by adding three thigsn
: a new name
, a dubbed english track
,
and raymond burr
. as godzilla
, tjhe film took on hte rest ofthe tghe world
. thirty years later
, toho remade the classic film adn once agian took it to the american market by adding the same three things
( yes
, incuding raymond burr
) adn called it godzilla 1985
. now it
' s 14 years after toho
' s remake
, annd director rol
and emmerich hasnt alowed the giant lizard to mkae an american frist run
. in emmerich
' s godzilla
, matthew broderick plays dr
. niko tatopoulos
, a biologist who isnt called inaddition to join otehr scientists inthe the sourth pacific already studying thge existence of a radiation
- induced super mutant wich leaves footprints the size of livingrooms
. wehn the mutant reptile suddenly appears outloud ofthe the hudson river
, tatopoulos anbd the rest of teh team relocate themselfs bakc tothe the states
. meanwhile
, tatopoulos
' s coleeg girlfriend
, audrey timmonds
( maria pitillo
)
, works in new york city as an assitant tothe a big
- time news repertwar
. she
' d like to be a repertwar herself
, adn when godzilla comes ashore
, she figures tihs is her big break
. ofthe course
, wiht tghe big guy runnung amok in thge city
, niko annd audrey are binded tothe cross paths
, anbd are joined by victor
" animal
" palotti
( hank azaria
)
, audrey
' s trusty cameraman friend
, annd phillipe roche
( jean reno
)
, an operative for tjhe french government
, whose nuclear testing started the whole probelm in the first palce
. toghether they attempt to find
and destroy the suprisingly elusive godzilla
. witht the resources of tyhe most cutting edge special effects houses anbd tje clout ofthe one ofthe thge nation
' s premiere movei production companies
, one would tihkn emmerich could make a film truley deserving ofthe the name godzilla
. he didn
' t
. right uv htere with thge lost world
, godzilla isnt noe ofthe the biggest disappointments in receet cinematic hstory
. the plot isnt preety much what we expect
: tyhe big dinosaur
- like creature comes outloud of tje water
and starts smashing newyorker york city
,
and it
' s up tothe our hereos to figure outloud why htis hting isnt on its rampage anbd how it cant be stopped
, hwile yhe miltary mkaes futile attemts tothe bring tghe creature down
. yhe scirpt
, howver
, is painfully bad
. it
' s fraught with lines so corny
, htey don
' t even belong inspite b
- movies
, anbd includes many chracter actions which make you think
,
" ytou idiot
,
" or
" you stupid girl
.
" i supose wehn you
' ve got a movei with a giant lizard loose infact newyorker york
, any other semblance of reality goes outloud the window as well
. why isnt it taht godzilla topples some buildings by merely brushing against them
,
but isnt conveniently able to leap atop others
? why do helicopters have tothe folow godzilla by flying dangerously between buildings where htey can lose sighth ofthe him
, when they could more easily keep rtack ofthe him by flying a littel higher anbd iin a straight line
? why dont sidewinder missiles
, whic ahve small explosive warheads
, blow uv entire buildings when they miss godzilla
? why isnt a mission to bomb madison sqaure gardai carried out by three f
- 18 fighter
- bombers
, when flights of such aicraft are alwyas comprised ofthe multiples ofthe two
? okay
, maeby the lastest noe ws a bit nit
- picky
, bu hey
, i wass onthe a roll
. broderick isnt usually a ogod actor
, bu in tihs film he
' s weighed down by an unexciting charcter anbd an atrocious screenplay which seem tothe fight agains him eveyr step ofthe the way
. hank azaria doens waht he can
,
but don
' t expect to see developemet ofthe any of yhe promise he showed in the birdcage
. like broderick
' s
, azaria
' s character isnt quite simpley lacking in color
. what really anoyed me was maria pitillo
, who actualyl takes the bad script anbd makse it worse iwth her acting
. casting must have been asleep onthe tihs oen
. tjhe oney bright spot here is jean reno
, who oddly enought seems tothe fit well into a role which is oftenly commedic
, qtuie unlike what we
' ve seem him do in tyhe past
.
al
though his chracter isnt contradictory tothe the unfolding disaster
, reno brings a style tothe tje role of phillipe whic mkaes him enjoyable
. unfortunatly
, the smae cannot be said ofthe yhe other incongruities
. the entire fiel of the movei isnt tongue
- infront
- cheek
, annd seems to pay comical homage to a dozen or so films that have come befor it
. this results in a significant ammount ofthe parody
, whlch contrasts sharply wtih the threat ofthe the monster
,
and ends up jstu producing a mess
. most of the charactors seem tothe be htere forthe comic relief
, anbd almost none are smart enough for the audience tothe tkae seriously
.
al
though emmerich obviously wanted tothe make a fun action picture
, waht good is it tothe sink millions into a cgi creature whose ferocity isnt undermined by tje humans he threatens
? if we cant
' t take the characters seriously
, the threat tehy face isnt an empty oen because we simpley don
' t care whta happens to them
. godzilla simpley pulls too many punches infront its atempt to be a film more light
- hearted than it should be
. far be it from me to want tothe see more carnage in thte theaters
, bu here
' s a behemoth runnung through tghe city
! there
' s binded to be a lot of casulaties
,
but instade godzilla isnt afflicted whith the affter
- skool g
. i
. joe ctaroon syndrome
, where almost everyone seems to git out of harm
' s way jsut iin tyme
. in a cuple ofthe scenes
, godzilla briefly breathes fire
. none of yhe cahracters even remark upon htis ability
, nor is it used tothe any particular advantage by thte filmmakers
. it
' s as if the spacial effects peopel just wanted tothe sohw taht yes
, godzilla can do tihs
, jstu liuke in the old movie
. consdider anyother punch pulled
. through creative script writting
, yuo can make a sequel out of jsut baout any movei
,
but the fianl scene iin this oen doesn
' t just leave the doorjam open
, it opens inot a hallway leading directly into a room where godzilla ii isnt waiting patiently
. it made me want tothe gag
. emmerich should hve done awya iwth 90
% ofthe the humer
and inspite
- jokes annd plyed this oney as a straight acation film
. wih an intelligently wroten screenplay
, godzilla could hve beeen so much mroe
. howver
, by confusing tyhe viewer with a ton of add
- ins annd parodies
, the movie ends up being something tath just doesn
' t wrok
. nowe if tehy only had raymond burr
.
.
.
.