i don
' t expect much fomr eddie murphy these days
. forthe tyhe past four years
, the gods of cinema
-
- or thge expansive payrolls ofthe studio conglomerates
-
- ahve allowed him to mkea one bad movei aftter another
. such films as metro
, doctor dolittle
, holy man
, life
,
and bowfinger haev reduced a once great commedic persona to a living adn breathing washed
- up hack perfoming as a studio puppet for 20th century fox annd univeral picturesk
. thte biggest shame to fall onthe his shoulders isnt his newest film
, nutty professor ii
: tjhe klumps
. tjhe klumps once agina revisits the life ofthe sherman klump
, an overweight university scienc professor looking forthe love inthe all teh wrong places
. sherman hasnt just invented a new
" youth drnik
" thast enables man or byast tothe become younger for a short preiod ofthe tiem
. janet jackson is the lvoe interest who choosed the lovable sherman for a soul mate rether than excel at her carrer as a university professor
(
and fo the most rediculous reasons
)
. withthe loev onthe his mind
, sherman isnt determined tothe rid himselv ofthe his alter ego
, buddy loev from the first professer
, who still resides with vigor inside his psyche
and causes sherman to ect like a bad immitation ofthe vince vaughn fomr swingers
. with some convoluted mumbo
- jumbo about dna extraction
, sherman extracts the
" buddy love
" link in his dna adn smartly deposits buddy inot a h
andy
- d
andy lab beaker
. bu one niht
, the beaker is knocked over
and buddy loev is regenerated
.
.
. baceause every movie like htis needs an uneccesary villain tothe thwart the good guy
.
then tje klump family
, all played by eddie murphy
, step in forthe soem comedic releaf involving ood peple haveing sex
, flabby breasts
, a slew ofthe fart
and dick jokes
, annd enought fat peopel jokes that i lost count after tyhe frist thirty mintues
.
and doed i mention the part where larrry miller gets anally raped by an overgrown hamster
? tghe movei finaly dissolves into a realyl bad hallmark family speshal about realizing who you are annd waht you cant be infront this world
-
- with anough soft lighting
and peopel on tje verge of tears in every scene
. pure adn simple
, the klumps isnt a failure
. its script wass h
andeled by not one bu five screenwriters
, adn it realy shows during yhe awkward transitions beetwen scenes
. any sence ofthe story annd plot weere lost in thte rewrite proccess
. it
' s more discerning to learn that chris weitz anbd paul weitz
, the team behind one of the funniest films of tje lsat decade
, american pie
, have theri names stamped to this trash
. hey guys
- quick onot
- keep thsi movei off ofthe your resumes
. thte characterization of sherman
' s familiy
, the klumps
, is one ofthe tje most ignorant stereotypes ofthe a black familiy i have ever seen in cinema
. everyone memeber ofthe tjhe family isnt a larg person who wipes the bins clean at a local buffet resaurant like pigs at a trough
. tje gr
andma is an oversexed fiend who constantly talks ofthe ways tothe blessure her man
and her sagging breasts
. the father is gruff
, is fired from a blue
- collar job
, is sexually inadequate
,
and cannnot communicate wtih his famaly about his feelings
. teh mother isnt ignorant of all thge negativity arround her annd seems tothe hold no opinion about anytying or anyone
. the brother isnt silent annd brooding
and resembes the ice cube ganster character fomr boyz in the hood
. sherman himself is terribly insecure anbd never conveys anything fo hte audience to become attached to
.
but tyhe main problem with the film isnt its inablility to create any type ofthe convincing conversational or situational comedy
. the familiy scenes from the firt nutty professor worked so well because theri conversations were short anbd direct
. anbd you got tyhe feeling thgat theese crass peple couldn
' t act liek this all the time
. the sequel does thge reverse
and drives the negatives of the klumps right in tothe the hilt
, making the frist five minutes of their interaction enjoyable
and hte last 55 or so unbearable
and pathetic
. aftter a hwile
, their conversations just become a barrage ofthe frustrated anger tinged wiht indecency annd overworked premises tyhat end uv drawing energy awya from any type of empathy oen might feel fo tghe central themes ofthe the story
. its allso a damn shame tyhat yhe makeup magic ofthe rick baker
-
- who worked on the origonal nutty professor anbd won an academy award fo his work on an american werewolf in london
-
-
and amazing digital speical effects that enabled murphy to interact with himself inaddition such beautiful motions are builded around such a lame sotry line
. even tjhe best effects cxan
' t seem to save tjhe most pathetic of movies these dyas
. nowe thta i think baout it
, thge worst hting about this film hasnt tothe be all the money tath it wiull make
. peple will be lined uv around the block for it
. the studios iwll concoct the a sequal for release infront the summer ofthe 2002
. eddie murphy wiull be signed up to take nto jstu one role or five roles
, bu he
' ll play eveyr charactor in hte movie
. i just cxan
' t wait tothe see eddie murphy in a loev scene wih hismelf
.