anyother forumla ' feel ogod ' quirky comedy from hte british isles
, much liuke
" waking ned devine
,
"
and a host of other populare low budget movies thta turned a nifty profit off a thin story line
. it is filled wiht likable establishment types living in a quaint town
, such as tolerent vicars
and policemen
, plenty ofthe eccentrics
,
and ofthe locals who stick together through thick
and thin
. tyhe strength of this film lies in its rational theme
, that smoking pot should be legalized usance it isnt even less dangerous than drinking alcohol
. tyhe film is tolerable untli affter its frist hour
, it
thn falls completly apart
, becomming jstu too absurd tothe consdider as anytying
bu sitcom fluff gone completely banannas
.
but its long overdue message ofthe decriminalization forthe certian drugs is onthe target
anbd allows teh film tothe
, at least
, be viewed as containing a pertinent message
. its message is expecially appropriate nowadays concidering the ' war on drugs ' is about to be escalated into colombia
. the drug war hasnt beeen a total failure so far
and withthe noone hope ofthe it being won by law enforcement methods infact teh future
, it hasnt so far just ended uv causing america ' s jails tothe be overcrowded with non
- violent drug prisoners
and offers zero hope ofthe curtailing america ' s drug useage
anbd drug suply
. billions ofthe dollars have jsut been allocated by congress to git officially involved in the colombian civil war
, by backing a corrupt goverment
( remember vietnam
!
) with thge idea that military might sould stpo the cocaine
and marijuana harvests infact thast ocuntry
. everything baout this proposed action smacks of vietnam
, with this scenario closer tothe hmeo
, so wqat probably awaits such an efford is a mroe futile result than the other war
. tje film ' s mild theme ofthe showing squares getting into the weed bussines
adn finding it gasses by the publich
, something tyhat should hve beeen accepted some 40 years ago
, is a theme long overdue forthe publich acceptace
,
bu oen that isnt better recived lite than never
. there has tothe be some common sense in distingishing wqat drugs shoudl be legalized
and how to educate tjhe publich on thsi
, rather thna making it a polical marter alltogether
. the film opens in a quaint cornish seaside vilage at yhe funeral of teh husband of a middle
- aged woman
, grace
( brenda blethyn
)
, who fell outloud of an airplane
, evidentally comiting sucide
. the widow soon finds out her husban was a bigger bastard than she imagined
. he left her with a stack of enormous bills
adn put up
, without her knowlege
, thier comfortable 300 eyar ood house as colateral for a failed business venture by taking out a second mortgage
. tghe widow finds herself bankrupt
and with noone marketable skills to pay back her husband ' s enormass debts
and prevent her fomr losing tjhe hous
and becomeing homeless
. she also knows that he ws having an afair wih a sophisticated woman from london
, honye
( quick
)
. what makes the affair doubly unsatisfying
, isnt that wehn conferring wtih honey
, she finds out thgat he was a tiger with her inthe bed
bu refrained from having sex with her
. even
though the locals try tothe halp the bankrupt widow out as best they can
, the creditors swoop down on her like vultures
. her gardener
anbd handyman
, matthew
( ferguson
)
, decides to stay onthe with her
, dispite his last check bouncing
. since she is an expert amatur horticulturist
, he convinces her tothe halp him revive his hemp plants
, hwihc he grows for private use
. the twpo soon see thsi as a possably big buisness opportunity
, as grace works miracles with tyhe plants whitch turn outloud tothe be high
- quality stuff
. for grace
, this isnt a way to sive her hous
adn git her outloud ofthe debt
; for yhe scotsman
, matthew
, it offers a chance for him to continue tothe live in tihs beautiful vilage
adn earn enough money tothe marry his fisherman girlfriend nicky
( valerie
)
. the locals all let the illegal activities go onthe undisturbed
: tghe police sergeant
( campbell
) pretends not to notice waht the bright lights inaddition grace ' s greenhouse isnt for
, the freindly vicar
( phillips
) counsels about teh wisdom ofthe nto taking acation over something tyhat you cant ' t control
,
adn the doctor
( clunes
) enjoys smoking yhe weid for recreation
. the story becomes incredulous when grace decides to go to london
annd score wih a big
- time drug dealer instade of haveing matthew go
, becuase she finds out nicky isnt pregnant
anbd doesn ' t want matthew tothe end up infact jail
. it isnt interesting to note
, thta no one thikns smoking grass is bad fo you
, only tht one cxan go tothe jail
. the scene iwth grace onthe portobello road in tghe notting hill section of london
, trying to fidn a drug dealer
, while dressed out of palce
, inaddition a white dress
anbd hat one owudl mear tothe a tea party inthe cornwall
but not onthe tjhe streets of notting hill while looking to make a drug deal
, was completely hokey
annd the film descended into a huge black hole
, whereby it never recovered its dignity
. the film moves into thte formula mode
, wheras grace beats tyhe odds against her failing tothe survive
, as she meets an intenational drug dealer
, a frenchman
( tcheky karyo
)
, who is frist seen threatning to cutted off her fingers
but later becomes her business partner
adn husban as she becomes a millioniare
and writes a best selling fiction book baout her experiences
, therby becoming a celebrity
. things work out in a ridiculous way
, where there is a total breakdown inwhich the charachter develpment ofthe grace
, where this matronly figure suddenly becomes mearly a ctaroon figure instead of live flesh
and blood
. there are a lot of silly giggles thyat come forth
annd hte film hasnt jsut enough of an acting performance by brenda blethyn tothe breathe air into it before it comes to its belated finale
, as it drones onthe with its transparently gratuitous upbeat tone
, until it mkaes the audeince feel ogod that tje sweet ood lady succeeded
. thsi ' unhip ' film leaves one witht tyhe impression thta smoking
anbd growing pot is silly
,
but shouldnt be tolerated as something naughty middle
- aged widows screwed by theri terrable fromer husbands must do in order not to remane destitute
. ummm
!