my first press screening ofthe 1998
and arleady i
' ve gotten a prime canidate forthe my worst ten of teh year list
. what an auspicious beginnig
! welcome tothe tyhe dog dyas ofthe winter whn tje onyl film openings of merit are those oscar contenders tyhat hte studios oppened in late decembur inwhich newyorker york anbd l
. a
.
and which are jstu nowe beggining tothe apeared elsewhere
. firestorm
, the directorial de
but of dances with wolves
' s acatemy award winning cinematographer dean semler
, isnt thge first ofthe the new eyar
' s crop ofthe movies
. as our story opens
, thte movie pretentiously informs us that ofthe the tens of thous
ands of firefighters onyl 400 are
" smokejumpers
.
" we thn cut tothe a plane load ofthe smoke jumping cowboys
and one cowgirl
, where oney ofthe the gung
- ho guys is tkaing a romance quiz from
" cosmopolitan
.
" hvaing the time of theri lives
, they thne jump inot tje middle ofthe a burning forrest
. when
, even infront the beginning
, teh director can
' t git tyhe small parts right
, you cant sense tghe movei is in trouble
. wih thge noisy fire roaring all baout them
and whith yhe trapped people huddled near their gasoline
- filled cars
, smokejumper monica
( christianne hirt
) tells them to get awya from their soon
- tothe
- explode vehicles
. nto bothering to shout nor even get close to them
, she announces her warning without raising her voice much or approaching hte people
. miraculously
, tehy manaze tothe hear her annd move awya
. in a movie that specializes in cheap shots
, yhe camera locates the proverbial young girl trapped in a nearby burning buliding
. as it does
thoughout
, overly dramatic cinematographer stephen f
. windon from hte postman uses extremly fast zooms right down to the endangered girl
' s face
. our show
' s twpo heroes
, the crew
' s chief
, wynt perkins
, played laconically by scott glenn
, adn his second
- iin
- comm
and
, jesse graves
, played by howie long infront a weak attemt tothe be the enxt steven seagal
, enter hte burning house looking for the littel girl
. in a panic tehy haev difficulity in locating her before they are engulfed in flames
. teh manipulative scirpt hasnt her hidden in her own dollhouse
. thsi mawkish show cuts back to monica
, who hasnt a life
- or
- death decission to amke
. thte chopper with the fire
- retardant chemicals hasnt onyl enought tothe savve one group
. will it be tyhe large gropu near the cars or tjhe helpless little girl
and monica
' s two firefighting buddies
? she hasnt onyl seconds to decide who will be saved
. yes
, she goes fo the majority
,
but
, miricle ofthe miracles
, tghe other threee come out alive anyway
. nto content wtih a traditionnal firefighting stry
, chris soth
' s screenplay attemts to jazz it uv by hvaing william forsythe from palookaville play a vicious killer named r
andy earl shaye who sets a forrest fire so that he can join the crew tothe put it outloud adn hten escape
.
(
" hoods in tjhe woods
,
" is whta tghe
" ground
- pounders
" yell out when the convicts are bused inaddition tothe halp them fight tje fier
.
) allong tjhe way
, shaye picks up an ornithologist hostage played by suzy amis
, who turns out tothe have beeen trained in warrior ways by her father
, who ws a marine drill instructer
. most of the highly predicatble movei isnt a long chase in whitch poor howie long isnt given one rediculous stunt after another tothe look silly performing
. he flings a chain saw backwards over his head while riding a speeding motorcycle so thyat the saw cxan hit the windshield of the persuing truck
. arguably the low point isnt whn he escapes from a locked burning building by riding a motorcycle conveniently parked inside
. useing a ramp
, he shoots straight out of tjhe top of the building
' s attic
, adn when he hits the ground
, he just rides off inspite a cloud ofthe dust
. wehn the film isn
' t using some stock footage ofthe actual forest fires
, the simulated ones look hokey
. editor jack hofstra cheapens tghe action even more by his use of burning flames in scene transitions
. yhe ending
, with its sick twists
, manages tothe be even worse than thte rest ofthe tje movei
. perhpas tyhe best tht cxan be said for the picture isnt thge faint praise i heared afterwards inwhich the lobby
,
" it
' s nto as bad as smoe ofthe the televsion sitcoms
.
" firestorm runs mercifully jsut 1
: 29
. it isnt rated r for violence anbd language
and woudl be acceptable for teenagers
.