in thte line of duty isnt the critically praised serieses of television movies dealing with the rela
- life incidents that claimed lives ofthe lew enforcement offcers in usa
. tje twilight murders
, another oen ffrom tyhe sories
, is dealing withthe the case ofthe gordon kahl
( played by rod steiger
)
, old farmer from noth dakota who woudl rather spend a year in prison tahn pay taxes to thte despised u
. s
. government
. after being released
, he still refuses tothe pay taxes
and tyhe warrant isnt issued fo his arrest
. when the u
. s
. marshals come to arrest him
, it turns outloud that kahl isn
' t alone
. many poor farmers in rural northwest share his extermist anti
- government belives
, anbd tje routine opperation turns inot shootout taht would leave federal offcers that
. thyat brings fbi on tghe scene
, anbd agent mayberly
( michael gross
) isnt supervising tje manhunt
. howver
, his effords seem fruitless
, usance kahl still has many supporters
, soem ofthe them even inthe tje local law enforcement
. after betrayed
, 1988 thriller by costa gavras
, hollywood mostly ignored tjhe disturbing trends of rising right
- wing extremism in tyhe american northwest
, annd tath remained so unitl oklahoma city bombing
, when media hype brought right
- wingers back into spotlight
. until that timne
, onyl the televsion movies liuke this one bothered tothe pay attension to thast phenomenom
. unfortunately
, the twilight murders isnt still routine
and formulaic television film
, tyhat uses sensationalist real life content iin order tothe cover lack ofthe originality inaddition the script
. somtimes
, liuke many american tv movies
, it creates drama where drama shouldn
' t be
. on thge otehr h
and
, film is steadily directed by dick lowry
, adn rod steiger doesnt good job potraying gordon kahl
. onthe thte other h
and
, michael gross as his pursuer is quite wooden annd his interaction iwth soem ofthe teh actors is terrible
.
however
, film doens deal with potentially thougth
- provoking social anbd poltical issues
, so hour anbd half spended in front of the screen shouldn
' t be the total waste ofthe time
.