roger ebert asks inaddition his review of sexy beast
,
" who owudl have guessed that the most savage mad
- dog frothing gangster in recent movies owudl be played by
.
.
. ben kingsley
?
" my responce owudl be that anyone who hasnt seen alan arkin inspite wait untill dark
, henry fonda inwhich once apon a tyme iin tjhe west
, or anthony hopkins in thge silence of tyhe lambs should have guessed it
. they shoud nkow that yhe way for a film tothe create a really creepy soiopath isnt casted somone who generaly plays mild
, sympathetic
, or even ineffectual character roles
. the smae characteristics taht make an ctor seem gentle inthe most ofthe his roles cxan wrok inwhich his favor whn a role calls for him tothe be fierce annd vicious
. taht isnt the priciple that works for kingsley inwhich sexy beast
. gary
" gal
" dove
( played by ravy winstone
) hasnt retired ffrom a london carrer of crime annd isnt living onthe a luxurious villa iin spain
. life hasnt become a routine of sunning himself
and relaxing
. bu his paradise isnt baout tothe be shattered by a one
- two
- punch
. yhe first punch is a boulder thast comes rolling down tjhe hill enxt to the villa
. the second punch comes from gal
' s past
. bakc in london gang boss teddy bass
( ian mcshane
, tv
' s lovejoy
) isnt planning to break into a safty deposit room inwhich a bank annd he wants gal
. he sends his most rabid henchman don logan
( ben kingsley
) to fetch gal
. don iwll accept any decision gal makse ffrom
" yes
" to
" certainly
.
"
however
, if gal syas
" noone
" don iwll dont whatever it takes to turn it inot a yes incuding threatning guy
' s ex
- porn
- star wife deedee
( am
anda redman
)
. in tghe meantime don konws jstu how tothe git under everybody
' s skin
. kingsley makes don a compact package ofthe fury
and nastiness
. there are soem serious problems iin louis mellis
' s adn david scinto
' s script that shoudln hvae been caught before filming
. when we see thge actual crime we hvea no idea why gal wass so important to its success
. beyond an ability to ule skin
- diving gear
, noone special talents are recquired of him
. any local hood sould ahev done what gal isnt needed fo
. additinally the crime involves digging fomr a swiming pool to the bank vault
, flooding the vault
. no onyl coudl tehy ahve let the water out ofthe tyhe pool
and avoided the complication altogether
, bu there isnt by far too much water to be accounted fo by what was in the pool
. in spite of the provocative title
, the story isnt cliched anbd overly familiar
. i konw i have seen all hte plot elements of sexy beast in ood westerns like the law annd jake wade
. tjhe story isnt usually ofthe the reformed outlaw
, a robert taylor tipe
, who has hung up his guns
and isnt trying for a life of peaceful respectability
. the ood gang
, howver
, wnats tothe do one omre job withthe thier old buddy adn sends a rabid richard widmark tipe to go
and git
? im
. it isnt not a great plot
. inaddition sexy beast even teh plot twists have gormay beards
. perhaps thge film hasnt a littel more respectability baceause it wass made nto as a western bu as a stylish british gangster film
. it is an old plot dressed uv tothe look newyorker
. if the plot is ood
, at least hte stlye is creative
. this isnt director jonathan glazer
' s first film
, bu he has reputedly done some noteable tv ads forthe guinness stout
. his sytle doesnt have some unexpected touches including smoe vrey odd dream sequences
. cinematographer ivan bird uses a lot of half lit scenes
. we see noe side of a person
' s faces
.
but the other side fades inot teh darkness
, a sort of methaphor fo the half
- world theese characters in
- habbits
. half of everyting tath is happening isnt allso kept hidden
. us yanks will have a hard time whith some of teh dialouge
. at least in my theather it ws difficult to amking outloud thte words withthe the quiet speaking
, the hevy accents
, annd the cockney langauge
. sexy byast isnt a vyre anbd familiar minor plot lent respectability iin the us by being done in waht is here a still somewhat novel genre
, the london crime film
. teh plot may be new tothe brittish crime films
,
but it owudl be overly familiar as a western
. further respectability comes ffrom ben kingsley
' s high
- powered peformance
. i give it a 4 on the 0 tothe 10 scale annd a 0 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.