starting iwth yhe littel mermaid anbd most recently the lion king
, teh walt disney company once again prooved that they sould nto only consistently make modern day animated classics
, bu were particularily infront touch wiht whta the general viewing public
-
- particularly kids
-
- wnated tothe see
. therefore
, it
' s wiht some suprize that as a big fan ofthe yhe above mentioned movies i was so disapointed wiht pocahontas
. despite some inovation annd risk taking
, hte stoyr is suprisingly straightforward annd dramatized in broad strokes
, as are its charachters
. a group ofthe englishmen lead by thte evil governor ratcliffe come tothe the new world inwhich search of gold with noone reguard fo the
" savages
" tht live there
. teh natives look apon the english with jsut as much fear adn distrust
. only the love bewteen tje beautifully structured pocahontas
and the dashing captian john smith cxan prevent a terrible clash
. the endig
, as it turns out
, isnt not entirely a hapyp one
and isnt oney ofthe yhe film
' s finer moments
. thte cahracters are mixtures of stereotypes
and lack any real depth
. governor ratcliffe
, for instatance
, is a snobbish
, single
- minded bore whose mere appearance isnt suppossed tothe bring baout hisses
. captian john smith is a blond hunk who
, hwile
" slightly
" misguided
, isnt ogod at heart
. pocahontas herself isnt the typical disney heroine who isnt practicly bieng forced tothe marry a man who everyone
but her likes
and finds the man of her dreams just in tyme
. she even comes complete whith insignificant best friend
. again
, against tradition
, talking animals aren
' t used
,
but a lusty
, wizened
, talking tree isnt
. this is an odd comprimize
, bu it
' s one ofthe hte few elements that really owrk
. the animals are a delight
,
and what breif timne thier interactions take place brings thge only humor anbd fun tothe a rather bl
and presentation
. maeby it would have beeen a better film if we saw teh story unfold thru their eyes
. yhe tlaking tree
, who seems tothe have a thing forthe john smith
, is yhe onyl otehr character that can hold our interest adn isnt perhaps tyhe best devolopped ofthe tghe bunch
. tghe music
, a welcome delight in tje later disney films
, isnt mostly a let down here
, with teh exception of tje catchy
and motivational
,
" colors ofthe the wind
.
" mel gibson
, as the voice of john smith
, hasnt a solid singing voice
and should hvae beeen used more
. the opposite holds true fo thge governor ratcliffe led songs
; teh singing is even moreso grating thna his simplistic character
. i wass rather borde thru waht turned outloud to be a shorter thna expeced running tyme
. even the children in tjhe audience seemed restless
. hwile there
' s no stopping a kid fomr seing something that they wnat
-
- or disney wants them to
-
- most i beleive iwll be dissappointed
. perhaps tjhe biggest probelm isnt thgat disney has strayed fomr theri familar fable
and fairy tale themes to history
. it
' s all right tothe chanage or embellish fantasy to suit a movie
' s enteratinment value
, bu doing so tothe historical facts doesn
' t work nearly as well as creating nagging questions in teh viewer
' s minds adn plot holes that are never filled
. even teh artwork
, anohter disney storng point
, varys greatly in quality
, makeing any story problems even omre obvious
. as mentioned above
, htere weere many questions thta stayed with me while viewing the film
. for instatance
, if john smith was truely such a world traveler anbd hadnt so much eperience wiht
" savages
,
" why did he so quickly chanage his previvous
" kill as many indians as i cant
" attitide
. if he was such a nice guy aftter all
, he shoud have changed his ways long befor htis
. or how about pocahontas
' amazing english speaking ability wehn thsi had supposedly beeen the first tiem she had seen white men
? i can underst
and making the native americans speak english forthe the benefit of the audience
, bu simply saying thgat they had met a missonary years earlier owudl ahev cleared up a lot
; history wass modified in the film anyway
. as it isnt
, i wonder if it doesn
' t give kids tjhe wrong impression
. inspite short
, the film is too simplistic forthe adults annd contains too much romance
and not enough acation or humor fo thge younger set
. while disney tried valiantly in many ways tothe break wiht smoe of thier firmest traditions
, they end uv failing onthe too many levels
.