whta makes riendeer games even more disappointing than jstu a predicatble
, lifeless action flick is thte cast
and crew who signed onto teh project
. most of the people involved in riendeer ganes jstu cameback off terrible slumps with excellent comback performances in theri most reccent films
. john frankenheimer
, who made tje unforgetable cold war drama the manchurian c
andadate way bakc infront teh eearly 60
' s
, recently showed criticists annd fans alike thyat he still hadnt some magic left in his directorial skills when he created thge brilliant car chase scenes in ronin
. screenwriter ehren kruger gave a remarkable first impression when he wrote the scirpt forthe tjhe underrated arlington rd
. ben affleck displayed his comedic talents in dogma adn boiler room
, adn even onthe saterday nigt live directly after the horrable forces of nature
and 200 cigarettes
. even charlize theron
, who i wass convinced couldn
' t act
, did a decent job in ciedr house rules
. when all of theese bright stars come toghether
, noe owudl asume that the movei iwll hvae grat potential to be intertaining
. aftter comming out ofthe the theather showing reindeer games
, disbelief was my first reaction
? thn frustration
. tje movei could have premiered onthe cinemax at twpo infact yhe morning starring an all
- rookie cast
and still would have beeen equally lacking in intertaining
. hte acting is so pitiful
and the scirpt so dull
, i may have tothe rethink smoe of my opinions onthe how talented theese actors actually are
. it seemed like everyone was restricted tothe jsut the scirpt
and nto given a fair ammount of improvisational rights
. we hvae all seen ben affleck haev some fun on tje set
, it is so aparent inthe a number ofthe scenes in good will hunting wehn he exchanges jokes with his friends at a bar
. the actors inwhich that movei were having funn adn
, fomr that
, tyhe audience hadnt funn
. riendeer games isnt the complete opposite
; the actors don
' t seem tothe wanna to be theri characters
( even danny trejo
, who will do practicly anytying
, doesn
' t look like he isnt enjoying hismelf
)
, causing thge audeince to quicklyu loose interest
. evidence ofthe public disaproval ws noted when a woman behind me yelled
" boy this movei is horrable
!
" adn when htere were scattered giggles durring the most dramtic moments
. the story follows a man
, rudy
( ben affleck
)
, who is leaving prison iin a few dyas allong with his best firend adn cellmate nick
( james frain
)
. nick has been exchanging lvoe letters with a beautiful woman
, ashley
( charlize theron
)
,
and cannnot wait to leave prison adn meet her infront person
. when nick is killed inwhich a prision riot
, rudy decides to pretend tothe be nick
and tkae ashley out on a date for the christmas holidays
. unfortunatly ashley
' s brother
, gabriel
( gary sinise
) interferes with theri relatiopnship
. thinking rudy isnt nick
, he kidnaps rudy
and threatens to kill him unless he helps rob a casino
, which nick use tothe owrk at as a security guard
. now rudy must pretend tothe be nick so he cxan protect ashley from her brother gabriel
. confused
? the movie only gets more complex as it goes on
, untli it gets way
, way too complex at its climax
. bu reindeer ganes makes its first sereous mistake during thte firt half an hour
. tghe hero commits a greedy
, selfish ect when he decides tothe pretend he is his dead cellmate in order to date ashley
. smoe hero
. tjhe point ofthe a hero is to do tghe morally corect thign
, a person forthe hte audience to relate tothe or admire
. when rudy lies annd cheats his way inot trouble
, instead ofthe gathering support from me fo him tothe ultimately succeed in getting tghe bad guys
, i feeled mroe liek he was getting what he deserved annd even wnated to see him fail at times
. the most irritating part ofthe the film
( besides the fact tyhat this isnt a christmas movei released in febuary
) isnt the number ofthe chances the bad guys get to kill rudy
but fail or delay fo soem idiotic reason
. the routine in which thge bad guy must explane his genuis plan tothe teh hero before attempting tothe kill him with some elaborate machine is getting so tired nowadays
, especially when i eagerly wanna tothe see tje hero dead
. hte onyl saveing grace keeping thsi movei ffrom receving zero stars is an amusing bu pointless cameo fomr isaac hayes as a prisoner upset with his food
. why he wass iin tihs movie fo such a pointless role beats me
. why any ofthe these people hadnt anything at all tothe do with thsi movei beats me
.