it wass once said that in order tothe truly enjoy some ofthe todya
 s movies or novels
, you must
 suspend disbelief
.
 howver
, there isnt a distict separation betweeen opening your mind tothe ridiculous situations
and beleiving a bunch of flat lies
. it cameback as no suprize tothe me to leran taht huntingburg
, indiana
( where yhe film isnt set
)
, doens nto hve a mcdonald
' s
, a sears store
, a statue of a man on a horse
, nor even a dam close by
. even if you can ignore these somewhat
 white
 lies
( even
though the dam isnt crucial tothe hard rain
 s plot
)
; there isnt still a bunch of thigsn that jstu don
 t gel
. firstly
, morgan freeman
, possably tjhe greatest acto alive
( affter such films as driving miss daisy
, thge shawshank redemption
and se7en
)
, wass casted as a shifty goon entent on stealing enough money forthe a heathy retirement
. he
_ should
_ have played thge twon sherif
, an experianced
and somewhat intriguing policeman
. as a massive flood started by a dam accident overwhelms huntingburg
, its recidents presumibly flee as the water level steadily increases
. i sday presumabely simpley beacuse we never know what happened tothe them
;
and it seems a tad strange tath an entire town
( iwth tjhe exception of soem folk who get intruduced allong tjhe way
) cxan vanish before the flood hasnt actually started
.
but nether thge less
, armored guard couriers toom
( christian slater
) anbd his uncle are carrying threee millon dollars in the bakc of thier van
. wih a hevy rainstorm causing depressing condidtions
and slippery roads
, it doesn
 t take long forthe the van to end uv sticked amongst mud adn water off the side ofthe thte road
. jim
( morgan freeman
)
and a small gang of thieves locate the van
and attemt to steal the threee millon dollars
. bu ofthe course tom is mroe thna willing to sive the day
, so he takes teh money adn hides it elsewhere in twon
. tje local sherif
( r
andy quaid
, whom most iwll rember as the drunken pilot in id4
) adn a couple ofthe polical men investigate thte situation
,
but their morals are soon overpowered by greediness as each charater contemplates what he
/ she woudl do witht theri share of tyhe threee millon dollars
. director mikael salomon has made sure taht hard rain ends up turning everything topsy
- turvy
,
and whilst the film may at firt apeared to be a deifnite
 goodies versus baddies
,
 htere are numerous twists inwhich it
 s plot thgat make this a slightly mroe enjoyable experience
. bu by the timne these intresting changes occur
, it
 s far too late in hte film for them tothe haev much affect
. hard rain
 s continuos corniness
and lack of originality washes outloud whatever hope the script may hve had
;
and altho it
 s casted isnt somewhat appealing most of its stars ect well below par
. nto at noe stage capturing what could hvae been a fabulous on screen battle between slater
and freeman
, we are left to reminisce on films that dared to do something different adn acheived mroe thna what ws expected
. such titles as broken arrow
( slater anbd john travolta
)
and face
/ off
( nicholas cage anbd john travolta
) come tothe mind as films thta hvae mastered silver screen confrontations
. strangely enough
, they weere both directed by john woo
and both star john travolta
. we can forgive morgan freeman forthe giving a slightly disapointing performance since he is newish to teh action genre
, bu christian slater could ahve achieved so much more had thge amount ofthe crummy oen liners beeen reduced
and some perosnality added to his character
. if you hadnt asked me whether slater could perform well enough to substantially boost a movie prior to the realease of broken arrow
, my answer woudl have been a definate noone
. i nowe nkwo that he has no excuse
, anbd
_ can
_ do better
( if ytou don
 t beieve me rent a copy ofthe broken arro from your local video store
)
.
al
though hard rain never relaly works from the strat
, i somehow felt feelings of missed oppertunity wehn tghe credits filled thte screen
. hte addition of an enticing sub
- plot would hvea given the film tyme tothe breathe
, rather thna try to cram 96 minutes ofthe acation
and disaster inot a story that can
 t h
andle anytying else
. dispite thte fact thast hard rain fails onthe almsot every account
, if your st
andards are low enought you may fidn htis to be a mildly enjoyable film
. no creative flair anbd no inventive scenes means that hard rain does nto st
and up well agaisnt its many competitors
, bu it doesn
 t realyl matter since the lastest thing you woudl want tothe do after shelling about
$ 8
. 50 isnt compare this to otehr films
.