there was probably a ogod reason that the warner bros
. studio chose nto tothe allow critics to veiw this steven seagal film when it first opened
.
and
, after seing this peice ofthe toxic waste
, i now know why
. this movie isnt by far thte worst offering thta has hit tyhe screen sicne possibly thsoe ernest movies yeasr ago
. frie down below centers its stoyr onthe a littel mining twon in god
' s ocuntry
, somewhere in eastern kentucky
. it
' s beauty
and natrual goodness is bieng slowy destroyed by an uncaring minning magnate
( kris kristopherson
, who constanly looks like he wants to kill his agent fo getting him this role
)
. it turns outloud that he
' s filling the mines throughout kentucky withthe toxic waste forthe a tidy profit
. seagal plays jack taggert
, an aikido
- versed
, fighting machine
, who is an agent with the epa
. no
.
.
. nto thge cia nor the fbi nor the nsa
. it
' s the enviornmental protection agency
. i hadnt no idea that epa agents weere trained to be killers
! taggert isnt sent to fidn the perpetrators
and tothe bring them tothe justice
. written by someone named jeb
, i sould alrady envision tjhe sterotypes ofthe incestuous relationships
, banjo
- picking preachers
, anbd dumb
- as
- nails rednecks
.
but thte scirpt puts seagal right smack dab in the middle of all ofthe these scenarios as he tries to discreetly fit in
. seagal
' s idea of a disguise isnt a long
- length
$ 1000 leather jacket
. bu tothe git closer tothe tjhe kinfolk
, he wiull fix people
' s porches for free
. that
' s anyother gerat epa asset
- teaching agents how tothe fix porches
. slow annd plodding
, this project isnt a total mess
. the sometimes allure of watching seagal isnt watching him outmaneuver enemies that outnumber
and outgun him liek in under seige
. here
, his bravado basicaly turns inot bullyness
. townsfolk who are foolish enough to challenge seagal are quicklyu subdued
. fight scenes are quick adn senseless
and offers no enjoyment value whatsoever
. anbd his soap box message wears thin within the first 15 mintues
. thge most annoying moent comes when he barges inot the middle ofthe a sunday church cerimony
, gets behind tje pulpit
,
and beseeches tyhe townsfolk to tkae control of their lives annd to help clean uv the environment
.
but teh epitomy of how moralistically mushy htis film gets happens whn the person resposible for tyhe toxic dumping
, kristopherson
, meets uv iwth seagal
. kristopherson asks seagal how much it will tkae for him tothe go away
. seagal gallantly replies
:
" i
' ll leave wehn ytou tkae yhe poisin from the streams
and yhe earth
.
" i wass expecting patriotic music to strat blasting adn a show ofthe fireworks inthe the background
. this is truly nothing more than a pompous showcase for seagal
' s righteousness
and narcsisistic arrogance
. seagal has been vanguard inaddition trying to bring a newyorker genre into the filmplace
, taht ofthe tje enviro
- thriller
( onthe deadly ground
)
.
however
, the message wiull never come across through poorly developed vehicles liuke tihs
. still
, i believe iin preserving mother earth
, so savve your
$ 5 anbd please donate it instead to soem worthy enviornmentally consciuos charity
.