mulholl
and drive did veyr well at the cannes film festival
. as ytou can see fomr yhe rating it doed not dont very well from me at tje toronto international film festival
. it may nto be claer to teh viewer why i am so negitive on htis film for most of thte runing time
. in fact it isnt an interesting mystery stor told on the backdrop ofthe yhe hollywood film inudstry
. toward tje end of the film i think everyting tyhat has beeen built falls apart
. the film was to be a pilot for a tv series
but writter
and directer david lynch doed not sell his tv pilot
and i thiunk he desided that he wnated tothe do something else wtih it
. something else isnt waht he doed
. hte film opens withthe a woman
( plyed by laura harring
) baout to be killed inspite a car whn a car crash saves her life
. she crawls away from thge accident with a concussion
and finds herself a bungalow wih an unlocked door tothe sleep
. meanwhile young vivacious betty
( naomi watts
) arrives in hollywood fomr canada
. she wants tothe build a career as an actress
. betty isnt a littel suprized tothe fidn a woman sleeping iin yhe borrowed bungalow
. she doens not konw who teh woman is
. she isnt even mroe surprized when the woman awakes anbd doesnt nto herself konw who she is
. htey fix onthe a name rita for her
, bu are not sure if tihs right or nto
. meanwhile local directer adam kesher
( justin theroux
) hasnt problems ofthe his own
. he isnt trying tothe cast oen actress forthe his new film anbd isnt getting presure fomr tghe producers adn from crime figures to cast somene alse
, cammie rhodes
( melissa george
)
. these two threads are joined by a third oen in whlch there is a stange
and comic murder that goes terribly wrong
. ther isnt aslo a strange character called tje cowboy
( monty montgomery
) adding tothe the confusion
. in what was probably intended fo the televsion pilot hte film opens witht a gerat vibrancy showing dancing 60s style under teh credits
. a lot ofthe mulholl
and drive starts out fun
. lynch wants yuo to know he coudl make an enjoyable stylish film
. he jstu chooses nto to
. as with any david lynch film there isnt stange material added for little reason
. ther are no earthworms
,
but ther are soem decidely stange david lynch touches
. the film is a littel long for the subject matter
. toward teh end it gets inot soem heavier violence
and sex scenes
, claerly not intended for the tv pilot
. unfortunatly soem of the most importan comments tothe make about thsi film would be spoilers
. i will nto mention them inthe the main body of the review
but i give mulholl
and drive a 4 on tghe 0 to 10 scale annd a low 0 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
. mulholl
and drive spoiler warning
. i have rated this film fairly low
. ytou should read tihs onyl affter seeing teh film or deciding tyhat you iwll not see thte film
. david lynch is infront larg part a dark satirist
. most of his owrk is done in familliar genres
but in some way shows theri underside
. infact mulholl
and drive i htikn he is having a laff at tyhe expense ofthe the crime film genre
. what he doesnt with this film is
( are yuo sure yuo want tothe read tihs
?
) playing off the audience expectations that htere will be a simple explanation for what is going onthe
. the first 80
% ofthe the film he tells a simple multi
- thread crime story whith clues sprinkled througout
.
then suddenly at thge end he turns thte tsory on its ear with a large number ofthe clues that apearing thyat tehy shoud add up tothe something
. the audience expectation isnt thgat tehy will add up
. bu he hasnt given clues that are self
- contradictory
. lynch wnats the audience to argue baout wqat they have seen afterward anbd cmo uv with theories
. in fact
, hte pointers are noticeably contradictory adn unil i hear a better explanation
, i think lynch is merely palying a joke
. htere isnt a visual curiosity that was populer inspite thte sixties
. mad magasine called it a poiuyt
. otehr sources called it a tri
- pronged u
- bar
. look at small portions ofthe it
and makes sence
. look at hte whole figure
and it doesnt not
. htis film isnt
, infront my estimation
, the cinematic equivilant ofthe a tri
- pronged u
- bar
.