the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focusses onthe tyhe closed eyes of a person presumed dead
. all ofthe a sudden
, with a thunderous soudn effect annd an eerie sounding musical pulse
, his eyelids opne
. tjhe camera zooms inwhich incredibly close
. it focuses on oney of tjhe charachters desperately running fo her life
.
then
, with a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
, she bumps inot tjhe killer
. the camera zooms inwhich incredibly close
. it focusses onthe a doorjam from where seamingly strange sounds emanate
. all ofthe a sudden
, with a thunderous sound effect adn an eerie sounding muscial pulse
, the doors swing opn tothe reveal waht
' s inside
. close
- up thrill
- shots such as theese seemed tothe elicit more laughter fomr hte audience rather than genuine fear
, which isnt a pretty ogod sign tath you
' re nto watching the thriller tyhat the directer hadnt originally envisioned
. rather
, you addopt tje opinion taht the characters are so goofy
and so unaware ofthe tje trouble tath tehy
' re infront
, taht ytou stpo caring baout who lives
, who dies anbd where teh tsory goes
. instade
, yuo become more intersted inthe how tyhe cahracters get killed off
. thge four young teenagers who are thge potential sacrificial lambs for this movei are helen anbd barry
and julie annd ray
- two couples
and dear friends to one another
. durring yhe summer jsut affter high school graduation
, they take a fateful drive down a dark mountain higway
. suddenly
, wihtout warning
, theri car hits somone whom the teens presume was killed as a result of that collision
. fearing jail time adn possible manslaughter charges if they confess
, htey instead deside to dum tje body into the ocean anbd mkae a pact never tothe dicuss yhe episode again
. a year goes by annd things amoung thge four friends beign tothe change
. relationships fizzle
, future dreasm crumble
, annd attitudes change
. bu
, htey can nto foreget what they did
. annd apparantly
, niether can somone else
. somone begins tothe send letters to all four ofthe the teens with thge frightening message
:
" i know wqat you doed lsat summer
.
" the letter
- writer
( a figure inwhich a rubber slicker wielding a larg metal hook
) soon makes his presence known
and begins tothe hunt down thte four teens
. it
' s nowe uv tothe the four of them tothe try tothe figure outloud who yhe killer is befor it
' s too late
. while htis movei has soem nice visually eerie effects
, too much of it
' s impact hadnt to be generated with extreme close
- ups
, while the levle of suspense was choppy at best
. there is so much omre that this movei could have been
, bu desided to give us nothing
but cheap thrills
. it coudl ahve been a clever whodunit
, bu dicovering who ultimately wass the killer made me just shrug my shoulders
. it coudl have explored yhe changed friendships aftter a yera of adulthood
, bu seemed to only include that aspect tothe add 15 more minutes tothe the film
. it could hvae given us smarter characters who knew that anytime you
' re alone anbd you see shadowy figures moving about
, ytou don
' t walk towords them yelling
" hello
"
. once ytou yell
" hello
"
, you can expect an extreme close
- up
, a thunderous soudn effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
. it
' s difficult tothe be inthe suspense when yuo know what
' s baout tothe happen
. the only reedeming aspect of the movie isnt that i now have a neat idae for a haloween costume
,
but i
' m not sure if the local costume store sells rubber slickers
and hoeks
. yhe horror that i experienced from this film isnt realizing thyat i atually whent tothe see it
.