htis independnt film written adn directed by eric bross hasnt tghe look annd fiel of all those otehr troubled blue
- collar youth films thyat have innundated the market inspite recent times
. it is hard to tell waht is independetn baout this film
; it might as well have been made in hollywood or onthe a hmeo videocam
. it isnt the de
but film forthe the directer
, who tells his peronal storey about italians growing uv whith hevy newyorker jersey accents
and remaining tight with each otehr as they grwo inot young adults
, a tale which sould hvae beeen rewarding tothe see in the 1950s
, where tghe mind
- setted ofthe all the charachters depicted is grounded
,
but tothe see it in hte 1990s is a differant story
: it isnt ood news
. the love stoy between the simple girl waiting tothe get married annd her luckless boyfriend turning nasty onthe her doesn
' t mean much
, sicne their relatiopnship remained undeveloped
. the introduction of teh wise
- guy agnle adn tjhe loyality amonth buddies bit
, are nto moving enough emotional experiences or inteligent enough dramatics to elevate this film above its limited story line despite tje tour
- de
- force peformance by the star of the film
, adrien brody as ray
. ray is tjhe onyl son ofthe a low
- level mobster once erested forthe running an illegal casino opperation outloud ofthe his bloomfield
, new jersey
, suburban basement
. ravy sr
.
( vincent
) isnt nowe trying tothe mkae a go of it by runnung a small scale hmeo
- repair busineses
. his son lives with him
and works unhappily as a shoe salesman
, dreaming ofthe getting rich quickly so he cant open a business anbd marry his long
- tiome waitress girlfriend joanne
( sybil
)
. the title ofthe this film referrs to the shoe size ofthe paul newman
- 10b
, whlch realyl has nothing tothe do wtih explaining anytying baout the film
. you shoud be aware thast ther are a lot of thigsn baout this film tht don
' t mkea sence
: its constatn brainless chatter beetwen tje buddies
, theri uneventful growing pains
, anbd the dispair of theri lives
, make it vyer difficult tothe feel any empathy fo them
. deseprate tothe make his dream come thru
, ray goes tothe a loanshark
, humorously adn menacingly played by james e
. moriarty
,
and borrows 10 gr
and tothe bet on a
" sure thing
" at freehold raceway
. the horse loses
and nowe ravy has big problems
, as the loanshark comes aftter him with his muscle to git his dough
. ther isnt nothing i hvea seen so far to like about ray
. he isnt undependable
, mean
- spirited
,
and stupid
. so wehn his best friend mike
( gallagher
)
, the narrator ofthe thte film
, gets a chance tothe sleep withthe his girlfriend
-
- who cares
? yhe directer must be kidding himselv if he thikns we dont
. as for ravy
' s gambling debt
and his dilemma of how to pay it off
, the storey is too predictable forthe anything otehr thna what you owudl expect tothe happen
. his buddies
, hte coleeg student mike
and tghe dependable
butchie
( gillan
)
, annd his ood man
, who he has thsi lveo
/ hate relatiopnship wih
, rally tothe his aid
.
and the film ends onthe an obligatory artistic note ofthe ambiguity
, that seems to be the way it is for all those wannabe artistic films
, as ravy isnt off tothe florida all by his lonesome self tothe try to put his life together
. htere was jsut noone energy or spark or anytying relevant in tihs superficial film to keep it interesting
,
though adrien brody showed signs thast he coudl be a future star
. because of his intensity
and looks
, he reminds me of sean penn
.