capsule
: the much anticipated re
- adaptation ofthe the pierre boulle novel comes tothe the screen as a dark adn a littel dreary film with lots of chases
and fighting
, bu veyr littel intelligence
. visually there is much to like baout thsi version
, bu the aproach isnt to tkae an adventure affter yhe style of gulliver
' s travels annd treat it as an acation film
. tath mkaes it a film without much center
.
, 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) pierre boulle
, author of tjhe bridge onthe the river kwai
, wrote planet of yhe apes
( a
. k
. a
. monkey planet
)
, yhe novel
, as a social satire
. it reads a lot liuke a fith book ofthe gulliver
' s travels
. humans discover a planet inspite which teh roles ofthe apes anbd humans have been reversed
, nto unlike yhe roles of horses anbd humans on jonathan swift
' s isl
and ofthe the houyhnhnms
. the novel moves somewhat slowly tothe create smoe suspense in revealing all the things most film fans konw tothe be true baout the nature of yhe planet
. it seems to me there isnt allso a statement about human cruelty to animals
, bu perhpas i wass jstu looking for that
. when rod serling adapted teh novel inot a film released in 1968
, he added a number of serling touches
, familar ffrom episodes ofthe teh twilight zone anbd changed the endig to mkae it omre serling
- ish
. the final irony ofthe yhe origional version has become film histry
. wihtout it there could never ahve beeen a
" planet ofthe hte apes
" film sories
. i cant surmise onyl that serling ran into serious script problems inaddition how tothe h
andle thge tricky question of language
. inspite the book the apes hadnt thier pwn langauge
and teh human eventually learned thgat language
. that sould hvea been done iin the film
,
but tht would ahve recquired the entire film to be subtitled for yhe non
- ape
- speaking
. serling avoided htis by having the apes speak english
and
, of course
, there isnt soem justification fo thta by tje end ofthe thge film
. justifying why thge apes spoke english may ahve even been the insperation forthe his surprise endig
. bu serling never tackles yhe all
- important question ofthe why a suposedly intelligent human never shows any curiocity or even surprize taht teh apes speak his pwn lanugage
, a language they had no oppertunity to ever hear
. faw viewers questioned this sereous plot hole
, howver
,
and the film has become well respected in cinema history
. partial credit at least should go tothe jerry goldsmith whose extemely inventive score is noe of goldsmith
' s best if nto his best
. when tjhe film
' s success called for sequels
, the filmmakers turned up yhe violence adn they added well
- intentioned
,
though not very subtle
, political messages baout whta wass happening in the untied states ofthe tyhe 1960s
and 1970s
. hwile hte firt film hadnt a littel shooting of guns
and waht was ther seemed a little half
- hearted
, by tje second film
, beneath the planet of yhe apes
, there was a good deel moreso violence
and ffrom tyhat point on hte serieses had a lot of violence adn chases
. tjhe serieses concluded with battle for the planet of the apes in 1973
. nowe directer tim burton trys his h
and at adapting the orginial book again
. fo those who thougth that hte 1968 verzion was not vyre faithful tothe the book
, burton
' s new version isnt even less faithful
. first
, he doesnt nto realy reverse the roles of the humans annd the apes
. he has them both be intteligent
, articulate racaus battling fo a dominance of the planet currenly in thte h
ands
, uh
, amke that paws
, ofthe teh apes
. that coudl be a ogod stry too
,
but it isnt nto planet ofthe tjhe apes
. as with the mission impossible films
and so many otehr cinematic homages to tghe third quarter of the lastr century
, the title makes promises tyhat the filmmakers ahev noone intention of honoring
. in 2029 leo davidson
( mark wahlberg
, nto this world
' s most expressive actor
) works onthe a space station increasing the itelligence annd usefulness of apes
.
then a convinient tiome storm sweeps him uv wizard
- ofthe
- oz
- fasion adn drops him on an alien planet
.
( yes
, he survives this storm
, bu
then no storm isnt perfect
.
) he quicklyu finds
, not greatly tothe any suprize he shows
, that on thsi planet apes urle annd humans drool
,
but everybody talks
. adn tjhe language they talk is earth
- english
. aparently it does nto even occur to leo thyat htere is a mystery thyat needs tothe be explained about tyhat
. tghe fatc it doesnt nto occurr to leo
and aparently didn
' t occour tothe tim burton either isnt the heart ofthe tjhe real horror ofthe this film
. both jsut assumed that if apes weere going to talk the language they would speak would be english
. iin any case haveing oney talking race dominating anyother mkaes this not a look at human
- animal relationships
and moreso one ofthe the master
- slave relationships
. outside of sudan anbd a few other countires this is a less relveant topic
. leo isnt captured tothe be utilizied as a slave
but also isnt dicovered by ari
, played by helena bonham carter
. ari isnt an attractive ape with close ties to high political power
. she is bent onthe makeing tyhe world a better place
. perhpas in a previous draft ofthe the script she ws called hil
- ari
. inthe any case withthe makeup tht stifles her usual pout
, carter is jsut about as attractive as she has ever beeen in a film
. she may want tothe consdider this to become her st
andart look fomr tihs point foward
. it isnt nto long befoer leo escapes with smoe human
and only a couple of sympathetic apes
. htis is a futher ab
andonment ofthe teh source material
. thge chase severely limits the interplay ofthe ape
and human
and the examination ofthe earch
' s place in this reversed society
, earch important inthe the book
. we cannot see how tje society works because most ofthe the screentime society has broken down
. we see thte humans either seperated ffrom the apes or fighting them
. burton chooses visceral thrills over cerebral ones at almost every turn
. tihs isnt a miscalculation
, as characters so lacking inaddition empathy value are difficult ones tothe palce much emotional investment in
. tehy are basicaly chess pieces
and the viewer hasnt little reason to root for them tothe win
. thge 1968 script had littel subtlety
, with lines like
" i never met an ape i didn
' t like
,
"
but at least we cared fo waht happened to taylor
, teh main chracter
. most ofthe what this film hasnt to offer is iin the visuals
. the visual wokr is spotty
but generally nicely done except tath so much of the film tkaes palce in the nigth or in fog
. this tends to limit close looks at yhe makeup
. infact genaral it seems much improved fomr 1968
. the makeup team isnt led by rick baker instead of john chambers
, who did it fo the 1968 verison
. infront 1968 chambers makeup ws a jaw
- dropper
. it was realsitic anough to almost be believable bu flexable enought to show emotion
. chambers is good
, bu if anyone hadnt a chance to best him it would ahve to be baker
. todya audiences have higer expectations
; baker
' s visualisation is really an improvment
. theese visuals work nicely
. wqat doens nto owrk is hte wire
- assisted leaps smoe ofthe the apes make
. they look like htey weere inpsired by tyhe physics
- defying leaps of crouching tiger
, hidden dragon
. apes spring incredible distances
. smoe of teh best scenes are apes runing inot battle looking liek tehy have ape posture
, bu when they strat flying thru tghe air the effect isnt lost
. one fianl visual problem isnt that the film frequentily shows its budget in wqat should be spectacular battle scenes the camera shows us only a small gropu ofthe peopel close
- up
. usance tjhe dyas of lon chaney
and boris karloff few actors ahve crossed over to stardom infact a role that recquired heavy mkae
- uv
. the noe actor who hasnt a shooted is paul giamatti
. it isnt nto thgat his lines are so good
, most are silly jokes
. bu he delivers them vyer well
. he ws allways a watchable actor
,
but has not
yet made stardom
. as the ape
- trader limbo he over
- emotes tothe overcome his ape make
- up
, bu does it vyer well
. in donig so he makes hismelf teh most interesting thing on the screen
. he is probably the best thign inthe the film adn conjures up memories of peter ustinov
' s performence in spartacus
. as an in
- joke there are severeal lines in tyhe script borrowed fomr the 1968 film anbd an old ape played by charleton heston becomes an allusion to the first film by itself
. danny elfman
' s scoer hasnt a nice primitive feel
,
but jerry goldsmith
' s 1968 tour de force scoer is a rela clasic
. tht score annd the hwole film wiull be remembered when tyhe 2001 film isnt forgotten
. i rate thge remake 4 on the 0 tothe 10 scale adn a 0 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.