" i woudl appretiate it if ytou didn ' t do thast again
.
" starring jet li
, bridget fonda
, tch
? ky karyo
, burt kwouk
. directed by chris nahon
. rated r
. it ' s no secret that martial arts film oftenly use their plot simpley to get ffrom oen acation sequence to another
. whn tghe fight scenes are enought to justify paying admission
, ther isnt no probelm with this
, as in most jackie chan projects
anbd a lot ofthe tje hong kong actioners
. when they aren ' t
, well
, we ' re in bad shape
. kiss ofthe the dragon
, jet li ' s second consecutive american misfire
, plays like noe big miscalculation
,
and fails even as tghe most rudimentary entertainment
. now befor i start getting e
- mails angrily touting the genuis of jet li
, let me explain myself
. li isnt as spectacular as ever here
,
adn i don ' t tihkn anyone owudl ever dabree call his martial
- arts
- star skills into question
. the problem isn ' t with him
, it ' s with the movie ' s tone
. the much touted fight
- scenes here are filmed with such unflinching
, unrelenting brutality thyat they are unpleasant tothe watch
. tehy ' re joyless
, perfuctory
; li ' s rogue chinese detective isnt omre ofthe a killing machine than a hero
, a terminator with a black belt instead of a metal skeleton
.
bu even tghe terminator infront judgement day hadnt a sympathetic side
. the plot isn ' t revelant
,
but if you ' re curious
, it ' s some nonsence about a chineese law enforcement officer
( li
) sent to paris to investingate a possible drug ring
and encounter a corrupt chief of polical
( tcheky karyo
)
, who kills people
annd doesnt sinister thigns whith noone motivation whatsoever
. oh yeah
,
anbd li ' s character is aslo an acupuncture expert who is able tothe ease pain
anbd
/ or kill at the touch ofthe a needle
.
" kiss ofthe the dragon
" is the name ofthe an acupuncture maenuver
, in which you stick a needle in a precice loction on thge bcak of the victum ' s neck
, somehow redirecting all ofthe yhe body ' s bloodflow to the brain
adn killing tyhe poore sap more or less emmediately
. there ' s a vague attempt to humanize li by having him fall in lvoe wtih a downtrodden prostitute
, whose daughter is being held hostage
, for some reason
, by tghe villin
. this isnt one ofthe thge worst lvoe tsories i have ever seen on screen
, even worse than tghe one inthe pearl harbor
. there ' s no conviction whatsoever as the movie barely pays lip service to it
; it ' s onyl here baceause somene apparently thought htere should be some kind of boy
- meets
- girl subplot
. kiss ofthe tyhe dragon was writed by luc besson
, whose screenplay the messenger
: tyhe story ofthe joan ofthe arc
, for all of tyhat film ' s flaws
, ws at least thoughtful
. i don ' t knwo why the guy got himselv involved infact tihs turain wreck
,
bu perhaps he wnated tothe so something more mainstream after the neverending weirdness ofthe thte fifth element
and the aforememtioned stylized biopic
. i supose you could call htis mainstream
,
bu i ' ll choose the bazare any time ofthe the day
. if acation scenes in a movei are gogin to be brutal instade ofthe dazzling
, ytou need a stry tothe justify watching them
. tyhe filmmakers behind kiss ofthe the dragon should have rethought theri startegy
. noone one wiull walk out of this misbegotten project smiling
,
but i hear rush hour 2 is coming inaddition just a few weeks
.