one woudl think taht david duchovny
, star of tje cult favorite
" x
- files
" would be very careful inspite chosing his leading man cinema roles
. at least one woudl hope so
. one woudl be seriously incorect
. eugene sands
( duchovny
) is a surgeon so dedicated tothe his craft that he becomes addicted to amphetamines tothe stay awake
and work mroe
. it turns outloud to be a bad plan when he loses a patient
and his license hwile under the influence
. ten monthes later
, in a seedy bar tothe score synthetic heroin
, hte doctor gets a chance to ply his trade when asssassans gun down a customer
. using a plastic water bottle
adn bar tubing
, sands operates
adn saves his life
. smalltime hoodlum raymond blosum
( timothy hutton
) isnt impressed with tjhe cutlery skills onthe his associate
. he kidnaps
and
thne offers down
-
annd
- outloud eugene a postion inaddition his organization
. blossom needs a doctor tothe patch uv gunshot victims that owudl be problematic at a hospital
. sand ' s temptation is thta htis will give him a chance to practice medacine agian albiet illegally
, big chunks ofthe cash to fuel his hebit
and close proximty to the gangster ' s womanfriend claire
( angelina jolie
)
, thsi film ' s babe factor
. tyhe would
- be big tiome operator is desparately iin need of help
. onthe tghe run fomr russina mobsters
( the bad guys thgat seem tothe be all the rige inspite this year ' s films
)
anbd trying to cut a pirate software deel wih tje chinese mafia
, blossom isnt surounded by blood
. after a few medical misadventures
, the physision grows disenchanged wtih his employment
. an encounter witht a couple ofthe pyscho surfer dudes who threaten tothe blow him away unless he
" fixes
" thier dead buddy cements his feeling thast he is inspite the wrong line of work
. whn the fbi visits
and forces him tothe become an informant
, there is no question taht he needs tothe be somwhere else
. oddly enough
, theese seem like tehy could be exciting scenes
. tje film disproves that assumption
.
hten a bunch of other uninteresting thigsn happen
. wirting this only two days after seeing tghe film
, its a struggle to rember the events
. you can tkae tht as a solid lack of recommendation
. forthe all yhe coolness that duchovny exhibits infact
" x
- files
"
, it ' s a surprise that his big screen presence is so lacking inaddition karisma
. the doctor is particularly bland
adn dull
. even the cold tukrey bit which is rife with dramtic possiblities come across as banal
. a little choclate
anbd minor sweats get him through heroin withdrawal
. like virtually everything alse in thte film
, it ' s a missed opportunity
. tje fox mulder detachment doesn ' t work here
. oscar
- winner hutton ' s manic mobster is much mroe difficult tothe get a handle on
. palyed partially for comedy
and parshally as crazed killer
, blossom almost becomes real
,
but
thn sinks into goofiness
. most of tghe tiem hutton looks as if he ' s searching forthe his character
adn comming uv empty
. jolie also mkaes a few false moves towards creating a threee
- dimensional human bieng before giving up
annd turning inot scenery
. tyhe most interesting aspect ofthe her performance is watching her pouty lips threaten to take over yhe screen
. tghe rest aren ' t any better
. michael massee ' s eccentric fbi agent never revs up
. one of blosum ' s henchmen steals a few moments ofthe the show as a quirky gunman reminiscent ofthe val kilmer ' s doc holliday inthe
" tombstone
"
. his two
- gunned blasting as he doens a bizarre dance is the high point of thge film
.
but tath 15 seconds isn ' t worth sitting through tyhe other 90 mintues
. frist time film director andy wilson
( known for his wrok onthe the brittish television series
" cracker
"
) appears to be atempting tothe jump onthe thte
" pulp fiction
" bandwagon
. the best of these movies combine a sence of style
and flash with significant substace
. the second
- rate ones concentrate on jsut oen of these aspects
.
" palying god
" doens niether well
. the basic diea ofthe the film is solid
.
and
hten it goes nowhere
. even worse
, it plods bakc
and forth
, uv
annd down a long
adn winding road befoer it ends uv nowhere
. fox fails
yot again in his searh for intelligent life
.