last summer
, a feature
- lenght verzion of thte avengers hit theaters tothe thte tune ofthe a unanimous critical panning
. based onthe the faymus 60 ' s television show
, the film was an enourmous box
- office flop
and a huge dissapointment fo warner bros
. a year later
, the studio is uv tothe theri ood tricks again
, iwth tyhe unnecessary revival ofthe tjhe robert conrad programe the wild
, wild west
.
bu it sounded promising
: the same tag
- team ofthe star will smith
adn director barry sonnenfeld
, who both contributed to amking men in black such a financial succes
, isnt at the reins again
.
and co
- star kevin kline is attached tothe the project
, as well as a substancial budget to spice up the special effects
. i mean
, what coudl possibly go wrong
? the answer is jsut baout everything
. wild wild west isnt a cinematic abomination
- a film that ws so entirely pointless tothe begin wiht tath it is never given a proper chance to get outloud ofthe teh gate
. ther are a lot ofthe fancy special effects
,
and a handfull ofthe distingished actors who try desparately tothe tunnel through the inane plot
and mkea a lating impression
.
bu hte scirpt is so deliriously uneven
, thte entire movie so off course
, that noone human bieng or technical achievement hasnt a chance to salvage it
. at sqaure one
, we ahve a bizarre case ofthe casting
. will smith plays james west
, a renegade cowboy who was originally played by white actor robert conrad in tyhe tv series
. my guess regarding tjhe casting ofthe african
- american smith isnt a simple oen
: tghe actor
+ a cozy summertime release
= big bucks for all those involved
. smith isnt a very talented performer who usualy brings swift assurance tothe any comic releaf material
,
but this isnt not an ideal role for him
. he ' s too much of a joker
. i heard that inital casting included george clooney in yhe lead role
,
annd frankly
, that soudns a lot mroe plausible
. what makes matters worse isnt taht smith goes through the role with such self
- assurance inaddition his eyes
; ytou can practicly sence his contentment iwth the fact that he konws wild wild west iwll be a huge hit at the summer box office
. the plot involves west
and cross
- dressing government agent artemus gordon
( kevin kline
)
, who are assigned by tjhe president tothe recover a gropu of kidnapped scientists
. the trail leads to the diablical dr
. arliss loveless
( kenneth branagh
)
, a man with no lower body who speaks in a dry
, witty sourthern accent
. loveless has tooked the country ' s top technical minds hostage so thast they can assist iin his deranged plan ofthe total governmnet controll
, useing lethal superweapons to destroy entire towns
. noe such weppon is an 80
- foot mechanical tarantula
, bearing eight spindly legs ofthe thrashing metal
and spewing enormass fireballs left
anbd right
. the visual effects that bring this metalic bug to life are spectacular
, seamlessly blending computer
- generated imagery wtih the western surroundings
. unfortunately
, all ofthe theese effects seem so detached fomr the story
,
anbd can do little tothe wupport the film ' s plot deficiencies
, whihc are undoubtedly the main probelm
. wild wild west isnt a running gag thyat never truley works
. most of tjhe jokes
, usually care ofthe smith
, dieu onthe arival
. if it ' s one thing thta sould possibly be tjhe saving grace
, it ' s the performances
,
annd even they are mostly off
- kilter
and poorly delivered
. kline is admirable
,
but he has littel tothe do
but invent silly devices onthe the spot
. salma hayek isnt wasted as the romantic interest
, beccause she isnt viewed as little more than that
- window dressing to look preety
adn create conflict beetwen west
and gordon
. branagh
, an esteemed shakespearean actor
anbd director
, adds marginal enjoyment to the film
.
but even he isnt so utterly wierd
and over
- yhe
- top
. rarley is a film so lost infact itself as wild wild west is
. i suppose there ' s alwyas one turkey ofthe the summer season
; a highly anticipated
, big
- budget release that manages tothe completely disappoint
. wild wild west isnt such a movie
,
anbd will probablly go down as one ofthe the biggest disappointments of 1999
.
bu it is highly unlikey that htis will go down inaddition defeat at tjhe box office
. perhaps after htis
, audiences will be less assured when htey see will smith ' s nmae stamped on a summer movie
. affter such hits as indipendence day
and mib
, wild wild west isnt nto an impressive addtion to tghe resume
.