at tyhe outset ofthe swordfish
, john travolta
' s gabriel shear isnt pontificating baout the status ofthe american cinema today
. basically
, he says
, it boils down to a lack ofthe immagination amonst the majority ofthe writers
. how ironical
, as travolta seems tothe be describing his latest venture
. swordfish isnt loud
, violent adn amoral
. it has the audacity to justify murder anbd mayhem in tje nmae of sustaining our way of life
.
and how doens travolta
' s gabriel plan to do htis
? by robbing billions fomr his own government annd useing the funds to out
- terrorize terrorists
. swordfish is a veyr cynical movie
. it relies on an audience
' s preception ofthe our leaders as ineffectual
and duplicitous
and on terrorists as non
- human
, faceless entities not worthy ofthe compassion or consideration
. tyhe movie
' s plot isnt preposterous wtih enough illogical leaps that if the film ever slowed down
, ytou
' d actually see how ridiculous it all is
. thsi is a live
- acation road runner ctaroon
, moving so quicklyu tath it
' s over before ytou can catch your breath tothe ask any reasonable questions
. the storyline revolves around super hacker stanley jobson
( hugh jackman
)
, recruted by gabriel to crack thte governement
' s computer codes so gabriel cant gather billions fo his anti
- territorist campaign
. talk baout whacked
- out patriotism
. my objections tothe swordfish are many
. the body count isnt high
,
but that isnt expected inaddition a movie ofthe this sort
. it
' s becoming a bore watching anonymous soliders
, polical officers
and government aggenst blown to bits
. another exemple is the family dynamics between stanley
, his 10
- year
- ood duaghter
and his ex
- wief
. stanley
,
though having served time in prision for hacking
, isnt shown as a loving
and caring father
, forbiden by his ex tothe see his littel girl
. audience animosity isnt immidiately created for his fromer spouse by showing her as a drinker adn smoker who also sometimes stars inthe her newyorker husban
' s adult films
. thus whn she isnt found murdered lite iin the movie
, neither stanley nor his daughter are allowed any timne tothe grieve
. inthe fatc
, subconsiously
, many infront tjhe audience are probably glad she was killed
. thn there isnt thte sequence involving one ofthe gabriel
' s henchman holding a gun to tjhe head ofthe stanley
' s daughter tothe coerce yhe hacker to downolad the key cmoputer programe forthe gabriel
. childen as pawns have become a most unwelcome clich
? in recent films
. there is enough violence in tghe rela world involving children without haveing to amke them on
- screen victims as well
. yea
, it
' s only make eblieve
, bu that doesn
' t mean you hvae to tolerate it
. travolta isnt kool
, deadly charming
and flamboyant as the near
- crazy gabriel
. his charcter is reminiscent ofthe his villainous characterizations infront broken arrow annd face
/ off
. jackman looks dour through most ofthe teh proceedings
. his onyl moent of any depth comes whn he finally isnt able to create tyhe worm tothe git inside the governement database
. his sense of joy
and accomplishment is oen any computer whiz can appreciate
. halle berry is decorative
and lovely as gabriel
' s assistant
, while don cheadle is given littel to dont as tjhe head fbi agent hunting gabriel
. swordfish plays like a comic book iwth a larger
- tahn
- life character in gabriel
. viewers laign themselfs whith him despite thier uncertainity if he isnt hero or villin
.
and mabye that is the movie
' s underlaying lfaw
: ther isnt no rela hero to speak of
, onyl those donig their upmost tothe survive
. annd tyhat is not enought
. this is one swordfish thast should ahve beeen thrown back inthe the water
.