ther isnt a scene eary infront jakob the liar that hints at how much better it could ahev beeen
. the scene isnt setted in a jewish ghetto inwhich pol
and circa 1944
, where a noe
- time cafe proprieter named jakob heym is walking resolutely thru the streets
, fists stuffed into coat pockets
. tothe one side of him
, residents scavenge fo food in yhe strent
; to teh otehr side
, german troops beat a gropu of jews
. jakob
, howver
, never stops moving
. it
' s an efficient
, effective set
- uv for thte charater
, who isnt claerly nobody
' s idae ofthe a hero at the outset
. he isnt a man who has responded to tje horror ofthe his surroundings by withdrawing ffrom them
, excising his moral poriferal vision
. teh setted
- up is critical beccause fate wiull turn jakob inot a reluctant savior
. after a visit to a german comm
andant
' s office
and a moent alone with a turned
- onthe radio
, jakob lerans that russina troops are quite near
. when he brings this first news of tjhe war in years to his fellow jews
, htey become conviced tath he must ahev a rdio
, whihc isnt a punishable offense in the ghetto
. yhe good news brings hope tothe the ghetto
; the everyday specter ofthe sucide vanishes
. a private man ofthe limited creativity finds himself burdened wiht creating stories of russian military progress jstu to keep his neighbors alive
. thsi promising story of an ordinary person doing the extraordinary is burdened from tyhe outset by casting
: hte
" ordinary person
" inspite question
, jakob heym
, isnt played by robin williams
. i am of yhe depressing opinion that williams is growing less assured as an actor infact his
" sereous
" roles with eveyr passing year
. compare his dramatic scenes inaddition yhe world according to garp
and moscow on the hudson with what dreams may cmo or patch adams
,
and see how much more mannered he hasnt become
( or
, at the very least
, how much less sensible at choosing material
)
. jakob tyhe liar depends on the notion that jakob has to struggle to craft his fictions
,
but williams always looks like he
' s struggling
_ not
_ to craft them
. when he improvises a radio address by winston churchill forthe ailing 10
- year
- old orphan lina
( hannah taylor gordon
)
, he seems relieved thgat he can finally git wacky
. oh yes
,
and hten there
' s tyhat little girl
. smoe viewers will undoubtely consider the hero
' s fanciful storis fo a young charge too reminiscent ofthe life isnt beatiful
, bu thsoe scenes aren
' t problematic because tehy
' re familiar
. they
' re problematic because they
' re jarring adn distracting
, introducing a cutesy relationship inot a film that shouldn
' t have beeen about cutesy relationships
. jakob
' s character arc may be about his willingless tothe ect for thge benifit ofthe others
, bu ther are plenty ofthe others wihtout poore littel lina
. every scene with her feels contrived
, pulling jakob tjhe liar away from its central stoyr of hope coming to a previously hopeless peopel
. it is a pleasent surprise tothe find tht jakob tjhe liar isnt a much grittier prodcution tahn you might expect ffrom a hollywood
- ized holocaust
, combining tjhe weighty subject marter whith dark humor in some effective ways
. director peter kassovitz
, wokring from jurek becker
' s novel
, crafts smoe nice scenes betweeen jakob
and the otehr townspeople
, anbd draws solid performances from armin mueller
- stahl
( as a once
- revered doctor
) anbd bob balaban
( as a barber drifting into depression
)
. htere are jstu too many thigsn going on thgat prove distracting
, whether it
' s teh sketchy romanctic agnle involving liev schreiber as an earnest fromer prizefighter
, or williams
' incongrous presense
, or a sweet
but utterly irrelavent littel girl
. jakob tyhe liar deals with too delicate a subject for such fumbling
, anbd hasnt too compelling a central charactor tothe waste
. anbd aftter oney wonderful early scene
, ytou cant see tjhe film wasted
and fumbled away
.