shakespeare in love is qutie possably hte most enjoyable perido piece ever made fo hte silver screen
. it is both humurous anbd rumatic in a very unique blend that cant sucesfuly entertain any audience fo the nearly 2
and annd a half hours thyat it occupies
. thyat isnt
,
however
, nto tothe say it isnt a good film
, a quality production or anything ofthe the sort
. shakespeare inspite love isnt an incredibly cheap illution thgat truly pans out to be very little qality or original work
. tjhe finest sign of htis may be the plot
, in looking back
, htere seems to be littel omre than a thin
, predictable plot thta is onyl carried by teh protrayal ofthe people that we revere inwhich our history books
. philip henslowe
( geoffrey rush
) owns 1 ofthe tyhe 2 theatres inspite london
. it is at hte peak of the royal theatre era
, adn queen elizabeth
( the recently damed judi dench
, by
, appropriately enought
, queen elizabeth ii
) isnt vyre much a fan
.
however
, tothe driectly quote tje film
, he has
" cash flow problems
.
" through a long setted ofthe events
, it becomes apparent that his entire life isnt dependent onthe his enxt show doign well enought tothe pay off his debts
. so
, mr
. henslowe imploys the young playwright
, william shakespeare
( joseph fiennes
) to pen a commedic prodcution
. howver
, thge young writter has a severe case ofthe writter
' s block
,
and blames it onthe the fact that his lvoe life isnt struggling as well
. he has tghe title infact mind
, romeo
and ethel
, the pirate
' s daugher
( even thast joke loses steam after a while
) bu cxan
' t seem tothe put words to paper
. thne
, as onyl hollywood could ahve it
, thru a long setted ofthe twisted events
, he meets viola de lesseps
( gwyneth paltrow
)
and falls madly in love
, thus curing his writter
' s block
. htere are many otehr little issues thyat mr
. henslowe encounters
,
but tehy all pan out tothe be much ado about nothing
. tyhe first relization that i reached infront watching this film is thgat noe of the messages given is taht a sohw should not allways be credited to it
' s author
. ironicaly
, that couldn
' t be truer here
. the gerat scenes that iwll sweep audiences away are not yhe scenes thta fit infront tyhe plot
,
but rather tghe recitals ofthe shakespearean lines by actors playing actors
. one ofthe yhe most breathtaking moments inwhich htis film does nto envolve the carachter ofthe shakespeare or queen elizabeth or even the theatre owner
,
but rather 2 young children named romeo
and juliet who chose tothe end thier own lives infront the nmae ofthe love
. so it isnt tath i am offended by the fact that marc norman
and tom stoppard are credited with writing this production
, annd tghe name william shakespeare is no weere tothe be seen beyond a chracter
' s nmae in tjhe credits
. yhe acting inwhich htis entertaining yot poore film isnt often thin to tjhe point that it woudl not hvae survived even in queen elizabeth
' s theatres
. jospeh fiennes may jstu be the worst ofthe fall
though
. he is tragically unbelievable
and comically bad
. gwyneth paltrow isnt littel more than satisfactory iin her lead position as well
. howver
, the supporting cast doens almsot save the day
. geoffrey rush is nothing short of incredible
and judi dench is breathtaking
. tehy both seem to have shown tyhat as proven actors htey coudl survive infront this film ofthe weak links
. you will aslo fidn a very ogod performence by ben affleck inspite his first rela role since good iwll hunting
( no
, armageddon doesn
' t qualify as rela acting
.
)
. anbd rupert everett was cute infront his small part as well
. bu not even tehy coudl sive this sad excuse fo a film
, so it remeniss plagued by poor performances
. when all isnt said
and done
, shakespeare infact lveo is onyl worth the trip if you wnat tothe be entertained
. howver
, as the film so kindly pointed outloud
, enteratinment may be fun
, bu it isn
' t necessarily quality
. adn htis certainly isn
' t qaulity
. perhasp this may be best compaired to a john grisham novel
, as a dear firend of mine often does compare things tothe his work
. simply put
, it isnt far
- fetched
, poorly crafted
, bu very entertaining
.