georges polti once wroet a papper called
" the thirty
- six dramatic situations
,
" in which he asserted the fatc that all drama sould be deffined by no more tahn thirty
- six different situations
. this may be thge modern restatement of teh biblical prophacy from ecclesiastes
,
" htere ' s nothing newyorker under yhe sun
.
" the faculty
, the latest movei by fomr dusk till dawn directer robert rodriguez
, certainly proves htis inspite typical hollywood fashion
. htere ' s nto a measureable fraction of origional material infact this unworthy outing
. drawing elements from both the puppet masters
and invasion ofthe the body snatchers
, screenwriter kevin williamson
( of scream 2 credit
) gives us a horror tale setted inspite middle amercia
( ohio
) one eventful fall
. mkaing ule ofthe a casted of unusualy stock characters
, williamson designs an alien invasion that iwll nto be done independece day
- stlye
bu rather
" thru teh bcak door
.
" parasitic aliens take over the faculty ofthe a run
- down high school
adn soon hvae infested most of the student body
, leaving it up tothe the ansamble ofthe principal characters to win the day
. tghe lack of gusto is the movei ' s major stumbling block
. even
though yhe genre has seen movies tyhat hvae a lack for quality such as this
, tehy ' ve been saved by an energetic approach
. this casts moreso thna a shadow ofthe a doubt onthe williamson ' s ability
, who enjoyed success withthe the wes craven
- directed scream
bu couldn ' t pull anything solid inwhich for this outing or i konw waht you did last summer
. altho he designs tyhe faculty iwth more of a sci
- fi bent thna his typical slasher picture
, it still comes down tothe teh smae results
: throw the stock characters infact a steel cage match
and see who comes out alive
. on that level
, thte main roles are played by virtual unknowns
. onyl the recognizeable elijah woud
( deep inpact
) is at thge front
; other than that
, tjhe screen veterans are saved for tjhe minor roles of tjhe alien teachers
. prehaps williamson has it iin mind tothe champion these uv
-
annd
- comers tothe the fame that their scream
and last summer counterparts achieved
;
bu to do that
, tehy ' d all need tothe star in thier pwn wb televsion show baout tjhe horrors ofthe puberty a la
" dawson ' s creek
.
" needless to sday thge acting is far from top nitch
, nor doesnt necessity ask that it shouldnt be
. htere is a moment or two of genuine horror
,
bu unfortunately williamson
adn rodriguez did not take hte stry far anough in tyhe sci
- fi direction to amking any uise of it
. in sum
, hte faculty was just oen long shooted that did not pay off
.