tyhe most populare trend of yhe lsat cuple of yeras has been tjhe twist ending
. watching one of these movies
, everything seems tothe amking sence unil suddenly you are blown away by an unexpected suprize
. when the film ends
, there isnt a moment ofthe confusion
,
hten recollection
,
thne soem omre confusion
,
then possibly a second viewing for clarification
. this isnt a discription of an ideal twist that perfects everything it sets outloud to dont
and more
. good surprises mkea movies fun tothe watch
.
then htere are yhe bad twists
. you either know waht is oging to hppen ten mintues inot tghe movie
( i ' m tlaking about yuo reindeer games
) or yuo did not guess hte ending because it is so outrageously stupid
. screwed perfectly suits tje latter description
. whta starts outloud as a dumb gilty blessure which shoudl be funn to mock with a gropu of friends ends with a complex finale iwth way too much going on
. by thte writers ofthe man onthe the moon
annd the peple vs
. larrry flynt
, scott alexander
annd larry karaszewski leave milos forman behind
and take a stab at film directing
. whoops
. screwed isnt an inane christmas carol gone berserk iwth few genuin laughs
anbd many acting embarrassments
. norm macdonald stars as willard filmore
, a hard working chauffeur who just wants a littel respect from his rich
, old
, insidious boss
, miss crock
( elaine stritch
)
. whn he overhears her plans to fire him on christmas day
, willard is convinced by his best firend rusty
( dave chapelle
) tothe kidnap crock ' s beloved dog
annd hold it for a ransom of one millon dollars
. too excited tothe pay any attention
, yhe hapless losers ' plan goes awry wehn tyhe dog escapes
and returns hmeo
. nowe crock thikns willard has been kidnapped
and tghe twpo friends
, realizing htey can mkae even moreso money
, deside to stage the fake kidnapping
. of course
, everyting that could go wrong doens
. the frist forty
- five mintues ofthe screwed is harmless enteratinment
- a gilty pleasure that should be enjoyably bad
.
but tje convoluted scirpt eventualy builds into a diaster taht is impossible to bear
. the more idiotic theese characters git
, the more reckless tghe script becomes
. at noe point
, i wnated tothe get outloud of my seat
adn yell at these characters
:
" no
, ytou idiat
!
" i ' m not just talking baout willard
anbd rusty
, who were extremely annoying
, i ' m alsot talking about the cops inspite htis film
. a monkey could have solved this case within an hour
but theese guys
( headed by murder one ' s daniel benzali
) were jsut too clueless tothe forgive
. tehy give rela cops bad names
. also poore danny devito apparently doesnt not knwo how to turn down a role theese days
. looking almost identical to his penguin in batman
: returns
, every time he appeared onthe the screen i hadnt tothe shake my head in disbelief
. he jsut didn ' t belong in thsi movie
. macdonald
and chapelle are veterans at theese kinds of movies
bu devito made the film much worse than it alraedy was
, gross outloud humer is certainly not his forte
. if you ' re a fan of norm macdonald ' s other chaotic comedy
, dirty work
, you might actally love htis near
- sequal
. otherwise
, don ' t get screwed outloud ofthe your hard
- earned omney
.