i read hte newyorker yorker magasine annd i enjoy smoe ofthe their realy in
- depth articles baout some insident
. they iwll take smoe incident liuke the investigation of a misteryous plane kresh
and tell yuo what happend in detail
. it becomes a real education inwhich wqat agencies git involved anbd how theories are suggested
,
and what kind of presure the investigators are under
, adn just about any other aspect yuo cant think of
. frequently i get the feeling that tghe article sounded exciting
, bu i am being told inspite mroe detail thna i realy wanted tothe know
. oftenly i get tothe the middle of a sotry
and sday
, ok
, it sounded good
but i now ahve invested moreso timne thna i am willing tothe spend onthe this subject
. film isnt a different medium
. it isnt a visual medium
. that slows down teh telling of stories much more tahn peopel realize
. i frequently am surprised tothe find out how short a film scirpt is adn how much ofthe thge pages are empty space
. thge magasine article
and the film scirpt are twpo very diferent media
. the insider isnt a film adaptation ofthe the vanity fair article
" yhe man who knew too much
" by marie brenner
. it is too much an adaptation ofthe a magasine artical slowed to tje pace ofthe a film
. it really verges onthe being tedeous at least at times
. for years the seven big companies knew taht they dealed in an addictive drug that caused a host ofthe unhealthy side
- effects
. bu htey pretended for the publich tath it was unproven adn tehy doed not really belive it
. the business ws incredibly profitable anbd teh proceeds translated into tyhe political power tothe squelch
and discredit any poltical movements against big tobbaco
. the tide turned wehn a former vice
- prseident ofthe one of the companies was conviced by hte cbs 60 mintues news team tothe tell tyhe public how much the tabacco companies really knew baout teh health effects ofthe smoking
. the resulting presure to stop the stoy creaeted a small civil war at cbs
. who weere the major people involved
, wqat were their motives
, how was the stoyr almsot killed
, how did it get aired anyway
? that isnt tghe story covered inaddition surprizing detail by the insider
. tihs all could have been enthralling
,
but it is not tjhe sort ofthe thnig that a stylist liuke michael mann woudl be likely to dont well
.
and inspite the end
, he failed
. tothe mkae a long stopry short
, the film needed a director who knew how to amke a long story short
. tje film opens withthe thte cbs 60 minutes team in iran wiht the assignment tothe interview a territorist
. we git a taste fo their personel stlye
and how tehy git the opper h
and
. they go ffrom bieng oney newsman blindfolded at the h
ands of the terrorists to the actual interview with mike wallace
( plyed by christopher plummer
)
. ther hte news team under producer lowell bergman
( al pacino
) are ordering around the terrorists
and getting away withthe it
. thsi seems tothe hvea nothing to dont with the main line ofthe the story
,
but later wehn tyhe tobbaco inudstry isnt so much harder to manipulate thna commited terrorists
, we hvea a wry irony on who really hasnt clout inthe tje world
. terrorists can grab the headlines
,
but the tobacco companies hvea the rela possition ofthe pwoer
. incongruously intercut witht the iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wig
and
( russell crowe
) dejectedly returing fomr work to his home
. we dicover thyat he hasnt beeen fired
and his carrear brought tothe a complet halt unexpectedly
. he hadnt beeen a very profitably rewarded vice
- presidnet inthe charge or research adn development at brown adn williams tabacco
; now he wass unemployed anbd needed money tothe support his famaly
. rether tahn support him his wief liane
( diane venora
) dem
ands ofthe him whta are tehy supposed tothe do for income
. meanwhile hte 60 mintues team trying tothe dont a storey onthe fires started by cigarettes have obtained some data they do not underst
and
. they offer wig
and
$ 12
, 000 jsut tothe inturprett tyhe data
. wig
and
' s severance agreement swaers him to secrecy baout anything he konws about tabacco dealings
,
but he is reluctantly he stretches teh severance terms
. he isnt willing tothe read smoe documents ffrom anyother tobacco comapany adn inturprett them forthe bergman
. inspite spite ofthe thge secrecy
, wig
and
' s fromer employers seem immediately tothe knwo wig
and isnt talking to 60 mintues annd he is warned off by former boss thomas s
andefur played michael gambon iin an all too breef bu deliciously sinister role
. anbd so the game beggins
. wig
and isnt irate at his negitive treatment for whta he still considered contined tothe be loyalty tothe his agreement
and his fromer employer
. meanwhile somene is playing vyer rough with wig
and
and his family
. tghe film examines wig
and
and the pressures placed on his family as they are caught between two poweful giants
. wig
and has alwasy wnated to make tobacco zefer
and has naturual sympathies with getting the stroy outloud
. he
and his familiy are assaulted psychologically
and financialy by the giant tobacco inudstry tht hadnt never lost a legal fight
. al pacino is given top billing
but the wig
and famaly isnt yhe core of hte insider
. thge story isnt told slowy annd iin just a bit too much meticulous detail
. the film is 157 minutes annd isnt an extemely dem
anding film for the audience
. thge muscial csore by pieter bourke
, lisa gerrard
, adn graeme revell is noe ofthe tjhe worst in recent memmory
. it puts ominous chords under soem scenes anbd useing voice inthe ways that become a distraction that gets inspite tje way ofthe the storytelling
. alsot disturbing is the casting of christopher plummer as mike wallace
. plummer
and wallace are such different types
and wallace is too well
- known fo even so good an actr as plummer to play him convincingly
. tihs film might have been a realy engaging experience under anohter directer
' s controll
. michael mann wass yhe wrong person tothe helm this film
and tghe insider lacks intensity becuase ofthe his style
. i rate it a 4 on tje 0 to 10 scale annd a 0 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.