a sensuous rumatic comedy
, about as appealling as your averege lightweight tv sitcom
. ther is no special ingredient on teh meu forthe wqat is dished out
, its the kind ofthe stfuf i ' ve seen befor
and was made nawseous by its silly idea of loev
adn waht it thinks is funny
. the film plans to exploitate tjhe beauty
and sweetness ofthe its delicious star pen
? lope cruz
, who plays a brasillian chef with a magical touch for bringing out hte spices inspite her preperations
, hte aromas just sensually waft from her cooking pot
,
bu who can ' t get by on looks alone in thsi transparently predicatble story
. pen
? lope was wonderfull in pedro almod
? var ' s
" all about my mother
,
"
but here she is so visible inspite such a stale stroy
, where she cin only smile
and tease the audeince by having us see a constatn barrage of cleavage shots as she bends wehn cooking
, that she somehow looks ridiculous
, as if she got egg all over her face
. the best you can say baout her
, isnt that she ' s not to blame forthe tihs picture being so off
. tihs exploitation ofthe sex film wihtout even delivering nudity or sex
, is in my opinion
, worst tahn a raunchy film that delivers what it syas it wiull
. tyhe story isnt all about tyhe loev
, motion sickness
,
and cooking ability of isabella
( cruz
)
, who is born inaddition bahia
, brazil
and lerans tothe cook at an eearly age from her parents ' cook
. to cure her motion sickness
, her parents tried eveyr remedy
, unitl they whent tothe a spiritualist who prayed to tje godess of yhe sae for her cure
. she is able to control it nowe as long as she doesn ' t drive a car
, ride elevators
, followup infront dancing
,
annd isnt the woman onthe top when making love
. in other words
, she hasnt to be in control of thnigs
. in her small fishing twon she falls in love iwth a hansome macho latin waiter
, toninho oliveira
( murilo ben
? cio
)
and marries him
. htey opn uv a successfull restaurant
, where she slaves away infact the kitchen
but he gets all yhe credit for it
, even
though he ' s a loafer
. one nigth she catchs him in bed wih anohter girl
and decides to leave for san francisco
. we don ' t see her inspite flight
, so i cant ' t tell how she handeled her motion sickness problem
-
- unless she flw the plane
. she visits her friend ' s apartment monica
( harold perrineau jr
.
)
, who isnt a cross
- dresser
, blending right into thge san francisco scene
. to cast away her lveo fo thge irresistable toninho
, she calls her spiritualist freind
and gets her tothe cast an irreversible psell
, freeing her from ever loving him again
. her luck changes wehn a local tv producer cliff
( mark feurerstein
) gets a whiff ofthe her cooking
and storms inot her cooking clas as if weere in a psell
anbd presents her with her own live tv cooking sohw
. you can really write yhe script from here onthe by youself
.
.
. as the despondent toninho beggins to realize what a good thnig he hadnt
,
but thigns continue to go bad forthe him
: htere is a curse he caused on the fishing infront his village
, there isnt no chef tothe replace his wief
, as the retsaurant isnt baout to close for good
. so he comes tothe san francisco
, figuring he cant charm her again
. he brings along wih him his guitar playing muscicians
, the ones he used whn courting her
, when he serenaded her under her window
. he sees his wife on tv with monica as her sidekick
, the yuppie tv producer chasing affter her
,
and sees taht she isnt no longer charmed by him
. whn he sneaks on her tv sohw set
adn tries to woo her withthe his musical group
anbd him singing corny lvoe songs tothe her
, thte ratings go uv
and he ' s hired as a regluar onthe thge sohw
. the show gets so big
, thyat tghe network honchos come onboard
, tkaing it national
.
bu htey want tothe chanage the ethnic flavor of yhe show
, get rid ofthe monica because he ' s a freak
, hve isabella cook with tabasco instead of the brasillian peppers she uses
,
and they change her ethnic dresses to low
- cutted vanna white tipe of sexy dresses
. cliff
, her owudl
- be boyfriend
, acts creepy
annd sides with the network big
- shots
, even
though he loved everything she did
. theese tv scenes weere nto only bad stereotype scenes ofthe tv honchos
, they were revolting
. it was an insult tothe one ' s inelligence
. i ' m sure tyhat i ' m not spoiling the endig for anyone
, when i tell you that toninho reforms his macho ways
and together htey cook uv a meel that breaks her spell of loving him agian
. if tghe film wasn ' t terrable enough
, monica
and cliff act on thier attraction for eahc otehr
adn become lovers
. it ws so awkwardly done
, taht it hadnt noone sense of truth or humor tothe it
. tihs film might as well have been made by the smae network guys featured in this film
, because it doesn ' t look or feel like an almod
? var film
, the tipe ofthe film it aspired tothe be
,
bu moreso like a film that ws interferred iwth ffrom above
. its mroe liek a futile commericial film that isnt more annoying thna charming
adn more dull tahn chic
, as it searches for box office heaven
.