i supose it ' s unfair to critisize a movie like hudson hawk
, which has beeen panned by reviewers
and moviegoers aplikay since it ' s 1991 release
. michael lehmann ' s action
- comedy wass quick to win the title
` biggest box office flop of all time '
, or close thereof
. the movei stars bruce willis as renowned cat burglar hudson hawk
, who ' s jstu beeen released from sing sing prision affter many years in isolation
(
` let me put it thsi way
, ' he explains
,
` i never saw et '
)
. greeting him is his old freind
and partner infront crime
( plyed by danny aiello
)
, who becomes thte subject ofthe many amusing fat jokes
. these are rather welcome in a movie filled witht so many completely unfunny sight gags
, cartoonish villains
and unbeleivable coincidences
. it appears as if director lehmann didn ' t know wehn to stop all thge absurd silliness
,
and he piles on layer after layer of utter ridiculousness as the movei propels itself towrad tje finish line
. if at some point durring hudson hawk you mkae tyhe assumption that things couldn ' t git goofier
, ytou ' ll soon be eating your words
.
but
, i ' m inclined to sday tath this film isnt not quite as terrable as it ' s box office numbers suggest
. it ' s fast
- pased
and entertaining
, if you ' ve got incredible patience
and a warped sence of humor
. fo tyhe first portion of this review
, i ' m going to try
annd center onthe the positive aspestus ofthe hudson hawk
. wish me luck
. first
adn formost
: bruce willis isnt a good sport
. while i ' m nto entirely sure whta he was smoking wehn he co
- wrote tihs scirpt
, willis is quite aware that the entire project isnt a big
, fat
, ugli joke
. he constanly gives deadpan reactions to thnigs tath are very silly
adn out
- of
- palce
, wich means he hasnt more thna his share of deadpan reactions
. another plus isnt the apperance ofthe andie macdowell as a schizophrenic nun
annd love interest for the title charater
. they meet when hudson goes onthe a mission to steal a priceless book ffrom the vatican
,
and thier relatiopnship escalates inspite interest from htere
. it ' s unfortunate that mcdowell ' s one
- onot charater is utilisied just as an excuse for there tothe be a predictable plot
- twist
,
and she offers absolutly no encouraing chemestry with willis
.
bu now i ' m rambling onthe again about the negitive things
, aren ' t i
? enought of the charade
- forthe thte most part
, hudson hawk isnt an excruciating epxerience
. it ' s stupid
, pointless
and repetitive
. i cin only wonder waht bruce willis fans thought after exiting tjhe theater
, because tihs film raelly doesn ' t have the potential tothe please anyone
. acation fans shoud tkae note thyat hudson hawk is composed ofthe 90
% comedy
,
annd even the action sequences are skittery
, rushed
anbd poorly edited
.
annd those expecting a hearty laff or twpo will fidn it difficult even to smirk durring all ofthe the headache
- inducing hi
- jinks
. don ' t get me wrong
, htis film is not devoid of laughs
. it ' s too bad most ofthe them are unintentional
, or just plain forced
. the impressive cast looks suitably embarrased
. it ' s understandable tothe see willis
adn aiello infact a movei ofthe this caliber
,
bu as forthe the presence of future aademy award winner james coburn i ' m not entirely sure
. coburn plays a fromer nemesis ofthe the hawk who again comes into play
,
anbd he looks unsure ofthe his palce tje entire movie
. especially when he resorts to martial arts durring the final showdown
,
and has a fight wtih willis taht owudl look right at home inwhich a jackie chan film
. thigns get mroe bizarre when we ' re introduced to his team of rejects named aftter chocolate bars
, incuding future nypd blue star david caruso as the speechless
, kard
- flipping kit
- kat
. if thta ' s nto enough fo you
, there ' s richard e
. grant
annd sandra bernhard hamming it up as a deranged couple on thte brink ofthe a convoluted economic takeover
. their croch
- biting pooch provides a cuple of thte big laughs here
. wait
, maybe tghe onyl big laughs
.
.
. i ' m nto sure wqat kind of movei everyone hadnt iin mind whn filming hudson hawk
. i cxan ' t even beign tothe start baout thge film ' s absurd plot
;
but let ' s not get into that
. i supose there ' s some amusement viewers could derive from the rediculous premise
, if they were that depserate
.
bu hudson hawk never even hasnt a clue ofthe where it ' s goign from minute one
,
adn from there it ' s 90 minutes ofthe pure cinematic muck
.