there have beeen bad films iin receet years
: ' mr
. magoo ' ws by far tje worst ever made
, the spectacularly bad ' blue inwhich the face '
, thte horrible ' baby genuises '
and now ' i woke up early the day i died '
. it may nto
however be teh worst movei made
bu it certainly ranks as one bad movie
. the film ' s acting
( if that ' s what yuo wnat tothe call it
) is well medicore to me
. loaded iwth a sensational cast ytou owudl think tyhat thge casted woudl at least save tyhe film a bit
, boy was i wrong
. affter escaping from a mental insitution ' the theif ' played by billy zane goes outloud in the real world
anbd finds that it is preety harsh
anbd gritty
. he turns tothe burglary to survive
, robs a loan bakc
, kills the loan officer
adn runs whith thousands
. a ocuntry
- wide man hunt is on fo him tothe catch him
and bring him down
. he ends uv in a cemetery where he puts his money in a coffin to keep it forthe later
, comes bakc
and realizes that someone tookover it
anbd put it somwhere
. nowe he is determined tothe kill all tyhe visitors at tje funeral ealier that day nutil he gets his money bakc
, ultimately leading to a finale tath isnt less thast satisfying
. a film which was based onthe a ' long
- lost ' scirpt by ed woud
, i have only one question
: no dialogue
, onyl music
and movement where exactlly is tje point
? yhe film moves along at a rather slow pace
,
bu does have one advantage
: tje soundtrack which is catchy
annd vibrant exept the frist song whcih cant be offensive to smoe
. it opens witht a fun
, innovative opening credits sequence
anbd quicklyu goes downhill after tyhat
. soem ofthe teh low points are when ' thte thief ' steals a woman ' s purse
,
annd
hten she faints
, sandra bernhard as a dancer
and tippi hendren as a deaf woman whom ' tghe thief ' kills tothe yhe music ofthe ' psycho '
. come onthe peopel git smoe new idaes already
! wqat ' s even worse is that tyhe film has noone plot at all
. well to a certian extent it does
,
bu who cares by the time the middle of thge film arrives we ' re bored outloud of our mind
anbd ready fo something funn
annd exicting tothe happen
. ' i woke uv eearly teh day i died ' isnt a perfectly bad film
. it shows us how low filmmakers get somtimes just whn deserate tothe make a movie
. even with the huge cast talent
, the film is a waste of my time
annd certainly a waste ofthe yours
.