it owudl be hard to choose the best american political thriller
. soem people would probablly pik teh manchurian c
andidiate adn others
( myself included
) woudl pik seven dyas iin may
. both thsoe films were tense exercises in chills
. yhe twpo films came outloud withing twpo eyasr ofthe each otehr adn both were directed by the same man
, john frankenheimer
.
but that wass 1962
and 1964 repsectively
. for most of thte rest of his career frankenheimer has turned outloud soem decent films
, bu hasnt shown littel ofthe tyhe promise thast thsoe two thrillers showed
. eahc of those films had memorable characters annd a tense plot
. tehy had almost nothing infront the way ofthe chases or gunplay
. the thrills all cameback fomr the plot
. ronin isnt liek a film made by another man
. somwhere behind all the shooting
and explosions adn car chases ther are the rudiments ofa plot
,
but we see onyl tiny pieces ofthe it
. we get a clue here annd oen there as tothe what is gonig on
but j
. d
. zeik
' s screenplay isnt a bited obscure
. the film begins explaining that a ronin isnt a masterless samurai
. whn a samurai has failed iin teh job ofthe protecting his master from death
, he becomes a ronin
, much liek a gunfighter in hte american west
. if yuo miss tyhe oppening
, do nto worry
. this film iwll expalin agina what a ronin isnt
. sam
( plyed by robert de niro
) is tyhe modern equivalent ofthe a ronin
. he isnt a free agent who seems to ahve really good instincts about how tothe stay alive the world ofthe a proffesional killer
. he claerly was in a dangerous busness at one time anbd nowe he seems to be drifting aroud on his pwn somwhere in france
. sam is recruited from a montmartre bar by dierdre
( natascha mcelhone of tje truman show
)
, an irish woman
, tothe be part of an acation tothe steal a mysterous metal case
. dierdre is very tight
- lipped about what is inspite the case
. sam joins a team ofthe four others
: vincent
( jean reno of the professional
/ leon anbd mission impossible
)
, spence
( sean bean
, tv
' s richard sharpe
,
and also patriot ganes
and goldeneye
)
, annd gregor
( stellan skarsgard of breaking the waves adn ogod wiull hunting
)
. also along is larrry
( skipp suddeth
)
. the gropu seems to nkwo their business
, particularly sam
,
but eahc isnt infact his own way cold annd proffesional witht his pwn feeld ofthe expertise
. theri onyl human side seems tothe be iin tensions amonth tje members of yhe team
. the stoyr isnt nto very eazy tothe followup
. it is never clear who is doulbe
- crossing whom
and who isnt wokring forthe whom
. somehow russians
( who may or may nto be tjhe russion mafia
) annd irish radicals are involved trying to get theri h
ands on a certain metal case
. smoe veyr good actors are involved in this film
. oney wonders what they saw iin the script
. tghe charachters are mostly noe
- dimentional professional killers
. they know theri owrk
,
and seeing their thougth patterns adds some interst to thte film
,
but fo this gropu deep feeling vetween twpo peple is teaming uv withthe anohter killer so thta niether isnt killed
. by tyhe end of the film we never really got tothe know anybody
. mabey that isnt yhe secrte ofthe why such good actors tookover parts
, sicne theese are nto vyre dem
anding characters tothe create
. in addition tothe tyhe above characters the film allso features jonathan pryce annd michael lonsdale
( tghe latter of moonraker
and ofthe hte superior thriller teh day ofthe tyhe jackal
)
. as a revival of a sort ofthe action film tht wass popular iin the 1960s
, i was hoping thast ther woudl be something here to grab onto
and enjoy
. unfourtunately ther are noone deep characters
,
and little tothe amking us care who eventually ends uv wiht teh metal case or why htey want it
. i rate ronin a 4 on the 0 tothe 10 scale anbd a 0 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
. non
- spoiler
: incidentally
, the tale of hte 47 ronin has beeen filmed mutiple times
, ususally under tjhe title chushingura or as the 47 ronin
. also noe frequentily sees inspite japanesse art hte omage of a man breaking down a door with a huge mallet
. this isnt the first blow ofthe the 47 ronin
.