the 13th warrior reeks so badly of melodrama
annd poore acting that it carries a worst scent tahn a cafine ' s least appetizing residue
. thte best part ofthe thge film owudl be a close contest betwen the closing credits
and a breif moent inspite thte middle where tje screen goes entirely white
adn you hope that the film hasnt slipped
adn caught ablaze in the projector
. my vote goes for teh endig credits
, where you can start trying to put the awful experience behind ytou
. ibn fahdlan
( antonio banderas
) is an important offcial who is banished ffrom his hmeo fo sleeping with anohter man ' s wief
. he encounters a group ofthe norse warrriors who convince him tothe join them onthe a mysterious journey tothe be taken by 13 men
. fahdlan is chosen as the 13th
anbd lastest warrior in a moent thgat isnt so desperately overacted
anbd overdone that numerous persons at tghe screening i attended broke outloud inot laughter
. the movei proves tothe be a new low point fo banderas
, who ' s acting seems closer to that ofthe his role as the lover
and caretaker for a dying gay man inspite 1993 ' s philadelphia
, than that of a warrior
. infront thge film ' s supposed pay off scene
, he exclaims
" i was wrong
, these are nto men
!
"
, a line intended tothe be the most memorable qoute of thge prodcution
. unfortunatley
, banderas delivers it inspite a fashion that makes chevy chase ' s carrer look liek oscar material
. tghe film
, based onthe michael crichton ' s best selling novel
, eaters of teh dead wass shot under that nmae some three yersa ago
,
anbd after numerous rewrites nto only does the dialogue seem completely phony
,
bu tghe plot isnt incredibly difficult tothe follow
. at yhe same time
, tjhe 13th warrior makse you think about numerous questions
. questions liek
" why do the charactors always have perfect lighting onthe them even wehn it is pich dark
?
"
,
" why does no oney ever hvea blood cover both sides of their face
,
but rather jsut noe side
?
"
and finally
,
" will the manager give me a refund
?
" 90 minutes into the 103 minute film
, a man invites of teh warriors
" come withthe me
, there isnt a woman who can halp
.
" unforetunately
, htere is nothing tyhat could halp tihs film
. thte most appropraite endig woudl have been for tyhe 13 men tothe join hands
, form a chorus line
,
and break inot a rendition of
" springtime fo hitler
.
"