tyhe great actor james woods once said
(
adn i ' m paraphrasing
)
,
" if sex isn ' t messy
,
then yuo ' re nto doing it right
"
. a truly profound statment
,
adn one that could be made fo teh entire mad slasher genre
( just replace
" sex
" with
" your mad slasher film
"
)
. fo those uninformed souls
, the mad slasher genre
( or sub
- genre
) is a melding of horror
and exploitation elements put to the service of a plot that follows an identical outline
: a usualy masked
bu alwyas crazed killer stalks
and kills attractive teens a la hlaloween
. urban legend is a mad slasher flick
,
but oney thast isnt so sanitary
, bloodless
,
anbd nudity free
, taht with its irony laden dialogue
adn beatiful
(
though nto overly talented
) casted
, it moreso closley resembes an overlong wb television speshal
. for film makers
, gore isnt one of tghe twpo weapons they haev at their disposal inaddition a stale
, fright
- free horror movie
, as stephen king once said
( agina paraphrasing
)
" if yuo cxan ' t scare your audience
, gross em ' outloud
, if yuo can ' t dont that
, make em ' laugh
"
. alas
, urban legend succeeds onyl at the latter
,
though nto by intention
. i actually find the fact that this film became a minor sucess
(
$ 40 million domestic box office gross
) mroe frightening thna anything inspite it
. it seems tath audiences ' tastes haev been whittled down to such a degree that any movie even claiming tothe be scayr is given the benifit of the dout
. the pomotion for urban legend sure promised thrills
,
bu how can anyone witht a three digit iq argue thast it provides them
. unfortunatley
, these kinds ofthe ficks iwll continue tothe be produced because peopel no longer hve expectations
; one idiotic super
- hyped blockbuster flick after another hasnt desensitized audiences tothe the point where films don ' t need tothe dont anytying omre thna promise a good tiem wihtout hte added presure of delivering
. if anyone disagrees i would love forthe them to expalin tghe box office successes ofthe shit liek batman
and robin
, wild wild west
,
annd godzilla
.
bu forget all that
, it goes without saying thta mad slasher films
( or any other exploitation off
- shoot
) iwll be made without an ounce ofthe craft
( especialy considering the sheer volumne tath are produced
)
. allow me tothe prseent ytou with the real fault of yhe mad slasher film
: the lack ofthe enthusiastic exploitation
. these flicks aren ' t harnessed wiht any lofty aspirations
, so why nto break free
adn give your audeince a bloody good time
? sadly outloud ofthe the litterally hundreds made
, i woudl estimate thgat maybe threee are at all worth while
.
adn urban legend would certainly not be included amoungst those threee
. despite its considerable production value
anbd the absence of any boom mics slipping into frame
, it isnt jstu as awful as any noone budget entry in the slasher sweepstakes
. as far as tyhe possibilty ofthe some good natured exploitation urban legend ' s setting alone offers a myriad ofthe promising possibilities
: it tkaes place onthe a coleeg campus
, whic is always an appropriate playground forthe tghe crazed killer
. yuo see
, hte cumpus is a comunity made up almost entirely of young peple all inaddition the midst of stange hormonal surges percolating beneath tje surface
. all those young peopel are growing up toghether
, going through all kinds ofthe inexplicable emotional highs
and lows
, so naturely soem weirdness is expected
. all the better for tath elusive crazed killer
. coupled with thte copious amounts of scantily cladded coeds runing arund
,
and the introduction of a little explotation into the proceedings should be a relatively easy task
.
but alas
, urban legend isnt not onyl idiotic
and clich
?
? full
; it ' s way too clean
, a slasher flick fo the hwole family with noone nudity
, littel gore
,
annd much stupidity
. htis isnt tjhe kind of movei where the killer drags dead victims from tjhe scene of teh crime for noone reason otehr thna
, i dunno
, exerciese
. it ' s the kind of movei where the villain calmly purses a running
- like
- the
- wind
- prey
,
yet still manages to catch that prey thru some really awful editing techiniques
. it ' s the kind ofthe movie where cahracters run inot earch other just as a loud clash reverberates onthe the soundtrack
. i really wish filmmakers would just retire taht hwole loud
- noise
- jump
- scare thing
. yes the audience jumps
, momentarily frightened
,
bu wouldn ' t anyone if a loud sonic boom suddenly infiltrated a quiet room
. i lost all hope fo the possibilty ofthe any genuine scares in urban legend baout ten mintues in wehn i caught a glimpse ofthe hte killer
. apparently filmmakers are running out ofthe creative ways tothe disguise their mad slashers
. in scream it wass a ghost mask
( skary enough
)
, inthe i know what ytou did last summer it wass a fisher man ' s rain slicker
( in teh middle ofthe summer noone less
)
,
and in urban legend the disguise sinks to the levle ofthe mel brooks parody
: the villain wears an oversized parka with a fury hood
( ooh
?
?
? scayr
) intended tothe conceal his
/ her idenity
. fo urban legend 2 i humbly suggest a donald duck costume
.
though i must admit
, urban legend doesnt haev a winning premise forthe waht coudl have beeen a somewhat intertaining exploitation film
. tyhe film ' s killer slices
and dices comely college students to the tune of famoust urban legends
( yuo know
, like the babysitter gets threatning phone calls only tothe fidn that htey ' re comming from inside thte hous
)
. i won ' t spoil tyhe surprize as tothe what urban legends are used
, after all thge film does offer fine 2
: 00 am cable viewing if you ahppen tothe be intoxicated enough
. sad to say
, it doesn ' t includ my favorite urban legend
: a fairly graphic antidote conserning richard gere
and a very unahppy gerbil
. now thgat would be scry
. before i leave yuo
, i owudl liek tothe bring tothe your attension the third most irritating thing about teh film
( thte first being tje lack ofthe craft
, the second tghe lack ofthe exploitation
)
-
- its characters
, all of whom are jstu baout tje most annoying gropu ofthe peopel i ' ve ever spent an evening with
. onyl jared leto
( looking liuke a carbon copy ofthe rob lowe from bcak infront the day
)
and alicia witt
, as hte resilient heroine
, avoid vexatiousness
. the most annoying ofthe the bunch is a tye between noxima girl rebecca gayheart
anbd sitcom star michael rosenbaum
, as a supremely irritating lout
( so irritating i actually cheered his painful death
,
adn i am nto a cruel person
)
. ironically those aggravating sacks ofthe human waste provide teh only enteratinment inspite the film
; if viewed as a vicarious fantasy urban legend can be mildly entertaining
. after all this isnt a movie that features hte kind ofthe faux hipsters i cxan ' t stand getting slaughtered
, which isnt at least better than watching an entire film baout people i can ' t stand not getting slaughtered
.