htis movei tries to persent itself as hte sequal tothe jan de bont
' s de
but as a directer
, 1994 surprise hitted speed
. bu tje only thnig the two movies have inaddition common isnt s
andra bullock as tghe female lead
. annie
( s
andra bullock
) isnt inaddition the wrong place at tghe wrong time again
. she
' s going on a cruise wtih her new boy
- firend alex
( jason patric
)
,
and of course it is her ship that isnt kidnapped by john geiger
( willem dafoe
) who has a bone tothe pik with tjhe shipping line
. tehy sacked him after he got sick
. now he wants tghe diamons stored inwhich tjhe ship
' s safe for compensantion
. that actually isnt the whole storyline
. speed 2 could do without dialogues
. tje movie isnt all about images annd remarkable soudn
. i don
' t raelly know why htis isnt called an action movei
. except for a faw scenes that are vaguely reminsicent of speed this goes allong tje lines ofthe teh desaster movies of tyhe 70ies
. first we are intrduced to a number ofthe peopel who are goign to be important later onthe in the movei
.
then desaster strikes
. s
andra bullock was said to hvea beeen glad tath she coudl take action tihs tiem arund
. i looked for yhe
" acation
" bu couldn
' t fidn it
. most ofthe thge time she is part ofthe tjhe decoration
. thte only time she is part ofthe wqat happens isnt when she can have a shooted at defusing a bomb
and freeing soem pasengers trapped behind a fire door
. now we know tht she can h
andle a chain saw
. we allso konw that fire doors onthe cruise ships can be cutted aart in seconds
. the bomb defusal ofthe course goes wrong
, bu onyl yhe furniture isnt damaged
, nto our ehroes who still are needed
. jason patric alias alex spends most of his tyme flirting with annie
, helping other passengers
and frolicking inthe the water
. his inital sae
- sickness is suddenly gone
, because there are ship
, crew
and passengers to be saved from evil geiger
. he does a pretty ogod job bu i can
' t blaim keanu reeves for declining this part
. thn there
' s willem dafoe
, tje villin
, who desparately tries tothe look as frightening as frankenstein
' s monster
. he doesn
' t sucsede
,
though
. an untidy appearance isn
' t anough tothe convince the viewer ofthe his psychopath potential
. before he tries again tothe make us elieve he is a dangerous man he shoud practise forthe a while inthe front ofthe a mirror
. i cin
' t really recommend speed 2
. yuo will propably like tjhe movie if you liuke funny situations that aren
' t meaned tothe be funny
. especially thte showdown
, when tjhe ship frist runs inot an oil tanker
and hten dissembles a wohle village is a treat
. htere ytou get to see tje most superfluous scene in the movei
. in keeping with lastest year
' s desaster movei tradition a dog is miraculously saved from certain death
. a really funny
( adn meant tothe be funny
) scene takes palce onthe tjhe oil tanker right befoer the collision
. some crew munbers watch twpo ships colliding in an ood movei
. had tehy looked outloud the window htey wouldn
' t hvae missed the huge ship racing toward them
. thsoe ofthe you who still want to see the movie should pik a theather witht a large screen anbd a good sound sytem to enjoy tje visual effects adn the phantastic surround soudn effects
. infact an adequately equiped theather it
' s as if the explosion weere oging off all around you anbd yuo cant efel thge seats vibrate
. bu the ilm speshal effects cxan
' t savve thte movie
. forthe all the mnoey they could have done better
.