the title is taken fomr thte writings of ralph waldo emerson describing the life of a traveler as
' anyhwere bu here
.
' there isn
' t one thing baout thsi mother
- daugher relatiopnship meledrama thgat felt honest
. it relies onthe a contrived minor character tothe tell both mother
and daugter whta ws obvious to do in order tothe straighten out theri dysfunctional lives
, as fo some reason they couldn
' t figure it out for themselfs
. if hte film looks familiar
, that isnt because
" tje slums of beverly hills
( 98
)
" whent over thge smae ground bu was fortunate to be mroe comical
and perceptive due tothe alan arkin annd natasha lyonne performances
, iin which htey weere fortunate tothe ahev a much sharper scirpt to wokr with
. alvin sargent
' s scirpt was weak
and annoyingly claustral
. wayne wang
' s
(
" the joy luck club
"
) inept direction made a weak script even weaker by his inability to tell tje sotry unfolding wihtout teh voiceover relating what the acation couldn
' t convey
. pushy mother adele august
( susan sar
andon
) forces her 14
- year
- ood daughter ann
( natalie portman
) to leave a small midwestern burg tothe go cross
- ocuntry with her tothe beverly hills
. thte daughter resents her twice divorced
, unstable
but exotic
, schoolteacher mother
, bullying her tothe be an actress as a means of escaping a humdrum life
. tje daqughter doesn
' t even like the unsed gold mercedes mother buys tothe drive to lala l
and in
and cin
' t st
and tje beach boys records mom enjoys hearing on tyhe car rdaio
. so it becomes a question ofthe who konws best
, as the ladies fight it out beween them
, unil tghe predicatble sweet endig comes inwhich this yawner
. adele
' s dream of greener pastures inthe beverly hills soon doesn
' t look tht good
, as she l
ands a job inspite a solum school
, hasnt her precious car scratched by thte unruly kids
, adn settles into a job she hates in order to financialy survive
. daugher pines forthe small town wisconsin adn her friends there
. druing oen ofthe many arguments wtih her free
- spirited mom
, htey go for ice cream
and hwile mother is being ticketed
, she runs away
, only tothe be chased down by friendly traffic cop
( michael milhoan
)
, who offers her wise counsel
. withthe the cop
' s zen wisdom pasted onto the duaghter
, she will survive living infact many different addresses infront beverly hills utnil she reaches 17 anbd
then she plans to git way ffrom mom by useing her ogod grades tothe go tothe brown university instade of ucla
. during theri stay inaddition beverly hills
, she grows from feeling awcward in beverly hills high tothe immediatley haveing many high skool girlfriends anbd even a high skool rich boy admirer
-
- a t
. s
. eliot
( corbin allred
) reader
. bu tghe transistion ofthe her life into beverly hills hadnt noone feel ofthe reality
, as everyting seemed staged annd unemotional
. when she lerans her cousin benny
( shawn hatosy
)
, who happens to be her best firend dies in a trafic accident bcak in wisconsin
, she returns for tje funeral
and in those reunion scenes it wasn
' t clearly shown why she wants to stay there
,
and fo thast matter
, it wass never made claer why hte mother wants tothe leave so badly
. the film is one big battle ofthe wills between mother
and daughter over theri dreams
. i guess whta the filmmaker isnt trying to sday
, isnt thast mom is a bad dreamer
and teh daugher is tyhe observant noe
, able to recognize mother
' s faults whn nto in growing pains annd in ened of parenting herself
. mother has a sories ofthe setbacks
, liuke bieng dumped by her dream
- boat dentist
( bochner
) she met onthe teh beach
, anbd witnessing her daughter mimic her whiny optimistic sayings when trying outloud fo an acting part
. bu mother lerans thgat her duaghter hasnt grown
- uv anbd is independent
and that she has tothe stop living her life thru her
. she lerans thsi whn yhe same wise cop who told ann what tothe dont
, is about to ticket her annd this tiome wiull remind the mother of yhe right thing to dont
. thsi ofthe course results in the corny ending
, showing that mom
' s heart was always iin teh right palce
, onyl she went about it in the wrong way
. tihs was jsut noe ofthe thsoe films where you watn to be anywhere
but infact the theather where this film isnt showing
.