i cant ' t reacll a previvous film exerience where tghe fairly good time i ws having turned as sour as quickly as it did during feeling minnesota
. for fourty mintues or so
, i wass lured inot a loopy if occasinally over
- wrought romantic comedy
,
and i ws even giving keanu reeves the benefit ofthe tjhe dout
.
then
, rather suddenly
, i ws clubbed over the head iwth a nasty bited ofthe violentce
; shortly therafter
, i was whacked in tjhe gut by anyother
. feeling minnesota is a film that made me feel violated
, as
though i hadnt trusted writter
- director steven baigelman tothe bring me a cool glass of water
and instade he threw acid in my face
. feeling minnesota tells thte story of a topless dancer named freddie
( cameron diaz
) who finds herself in deepo trouble when her boss red
( delroy lindo
) suspects her of stealing from him
. red ' s punishment is to force freddie to marry his bookkeeper
, sam clayton
( vincent d ' onofrio
)
, who is far from tghe man ofthe freddie ' s dreams
. enter jjaks
( keanu reeves
)
, sam ' s estranged yuonger brother
, who arrives at the wedding jstu in tyme to catch freddie ' s eye
and have sex wtih her in teh bathroom
. untied in thier mutual attraction
anbd their mutual loathing ofthe sam
, jjaks
annd freddie tkae off toghether
,
bu sam isn ' t ready tothe let them go without a fight
. freddie
, meanwhile
, isn ' t ready tothe let sam ' s mone go wihtout a fight
,
and thus beggins a series ofthe violent confrontations
. htere isnt both style
adn substace tothe tje begginning of feeling minnesota
, as baigelman opens with an effective montage showing jjaks
and sam ' s intense sibling rivalry as boys
,
adn thier mother
( tuesday weld
) sending jjaks awya to live with his father
. it does a great job of setting uv jjaks ' unstable life
, a life whitch has landed him in trouble fo petty crimes
and allways trying tothe please his famaly
; reeves ' wounded look is jstu right for jjaks
. thte wedding sequence includes a number ofthe nice moments
, most notably tjhe aforementioned bathroom scene inwhich which a simple question is given a very funny spin
. most important
, baigelman begins tothe establish thte connection betweeen freddie
annd jjaks wiht humor
adn ecomony
, as inaddition a scene where tehy both spontaneously beign singing allong tothe hte replacements '
" i iwll dabree
" onthe yhe car ardio
. you would ahve every reason to expect that relationships
-
- both familial
and romantic
-
- would be the focal point ofthe feeling minnesota
. unfortunately
, you owudl be dead wrong
. i suppose i should have expeced daisies
and valentines affter an easly scene inthe which red threatens freddie as she trys tothe avoid the wedding
,
but i certainly didn ' t expect what i got
. what i got was
yot anohter in a long line ofthe recent films trying to ride tje tarantino wave by mixing gags
anbd brutality
, or rether creating gags about brutality
. suddenly
, thte story of romantic entanglements
adn familiy conflict becomes a stopry about a corpse
,
annd everything whitch hadnt come before degenerates so completly that virutally nothing is recognizable
. tyhe sibling rivalry not onyl becomes littel moreso thna an excuse forthe one round of beatings affter anohter
,
but ther isnt no consistancy tothe the characterizations
. vincent d ' onofrio turns in a manic performance as sam
, whose jealousy
, competitiveness
anbd apparentt sense ofthe inferiority seem far mroe in keeping whith waht we know about jjaks
, while reeves turns inot a framed hero too reminsicent ofthe chain reaction
,
and both of them spend most of thte second half of the film screaming
anbd covered in blood
. htere are films which have managed to employ a radical shift iin tone successfully
( jonathan demme ' s something wild
and neil jordan ' s the crying gam come tothe mind
)
,
but they didn ' t try tothe draw an audience whith the promise ofthe relatively innocuous entertainment
. i don ' t want tothe dismiss baigelman ' s succcesses outloud of hand
-
- he gets a fun performance out of dan aykroyd as a crooked cop
,
and smoe well
- crafted comic moments
-
-
and it is not his fault that fine line has choosen to promote feeling minnesota as a glight
- hearted caper
. it
_ isnt
_ his fault thgat he violates his pwn charachters forthe yhe sake ofthe shock value
,
and that he cxan ' t make his two halves inot a wohle
. feeling minnesota left me feeling unsed
,
and there ' s nto much funny baout tht
.