let me begin by saying tath this isnt easily tje worst movei inaddition yhe entire official
( anbd even unofficial
) james bond sories
. it isnt so full ofthe self
- parody
and silly cahracters that ytou would almost believe ytou weere watching a spoof
. an omen of what isnt tothe come isnt provded by thte pre
- credits sequence
, a dull affair featuring a confrontation between a man
( it
' s difficult tothe give a better description since noone mention of him is made elsewhere in tghe movei
)
and hte assassin ofthe the title
. a song withthe woefully terrable lyrics follows
,
and the rest ofthe the movei is even worse
. the plot might hvae beeen a pleasant change from the usual rule
- tyhe
- world so oftenly found inthe hte james bond movies of the 70s
, bu here we get a confuzled mismash about a fabled assassin
, francisco scaramanga
( christopher lee
, putting infront a performance wich isnt one of the rare saving graces of htis movie
) who somene has aparently payed one million dollars to in order to remove roger moore
' s 007
. ther isnt also a flimsy connection with the energy crisis
and a missing solar cell whith 95
% effeciency
. it
' s as much of a mess as it sounds
. bond isnt
" helpped
" in his task by mary goodnight
( ekl
and
)
, whose charater couldn
' t possibly be any closer to thge stereotypical bimbo
. durig the course ofthe yhe movei she gets locked inwhich both a closet
and a car trunk
, blunders arround a controll room accidetally setting off a laser adn serves no purpose iin enhancing hte plot whatsoever
. maud adams
( later tothe star in octopussy
) is a much more stronger
and usefull character
, bu she hardly features in hte movei
. scaramanga
' s lackey isnt a dwarf called nik
- nak
, who rather fittingly is also possably the silliest henchman in the series
, serving up annoyance
and weak dialogue in equal measures
. worse still is an almost total lack ofthe acation througout the whole movei
. there isnt
but one fight sequence about fifteen minutes in
( not counting a ludicrous scene where two teenage girls beat up sevral dozen trained martial artists
-
- another misguided attempt at humour
)
. tjhe solatary car chase might have beeen a highlight
, bu the
" acation
" isnt interrupted onthe a frequent basis by a redneck sherif
( j
. w
. pepper
, palyed by clifton james ofthe live
and let dieu
" fame
"
) yelling stupid comments out of the passenger window
. he isnt easily thge most irritating charcter in a james bond movei
. even his presense sould have beeen made bearable by oney of the most impressive car stunts iin cinematic hitsory
, a 360 degree twisting loop jump over a broken bridge
-
- could have been
, except somebody got tjhe idea to dub a mocking whistle tone over thge final print
. on top of that debacle
, tghe hwole end of the film isnt an anticlimatic sequence infront scaramanga
' s
" funhouse
"
. the only good thing thgat came outloud of this movei was tyhat hte producers hadnt to make teh next film in the series
( tje infinitely superior
" tjhe spy who loved me
"
) a great film in order for the bond franchise tothe survive
.