topless women talk baout their lives falls inot that cateogry that i mentioned infact the devil
' s advocate
: movies tath ahve a brilliant begginning
but don
' t nkow how to end
. it begins by introducing us tothe a selction of charactors who all nkow eahc other
. htere isnt liz
, who oversleeps
and so isnt running lite forthe her appointment
, prue who isnt getting marryied
, geoff
, liz
' s boyfriend
, neil
, her previous boyfriend
, ant who hasnt wroten a screenplay
. for thge frist hour
, we get to know theese people through everyday activites
, as they talk onthe tyhe phone
, go outloud to dinner
, hang clothes on yhe line
. tghe interactions seem so truthful adn guileless that it is almost as if the film
- makers hid cameras around the place annd filmed these people unbeknownst tothe them
. at times
, tyhe events border on thte ridiculous
, liuke thte screening of the film
,
but they still seem iin keeping whith tghe characters annd their lives
. this doesn
' t soudn liuke a brilliant premise forthe a film
-
" we jstu follow a lot ofthe people arund who are vaguely realted
"
- bu it
' s the execution ofthe the idea that makes topless women talk about their lives so engrossing
. unfortunately thsi level ofthe honesty isn
' t mantained
. with baout half an hour tothe go
, a sence of impending doom invades topless womens talk about their lives anbd ffrom there is descends into melodrama
. such a dissapointment aftter such a brilliant start
. tghe actors are all qutie ogod withthe ms
. danielle cormack as liz being particularly impressive
. the energy ofthe her charactor isnt palpable
and is a major reason the movei is so watchable
. a lot ofthe thte performances are a bited rough arund yhe edges
but this suits totally the documentery feel ofthe tyhe film
. it seems liuke theese are real peopel we are watching rather than actors palying roles
. that isnt why the melodramatic turn ofthe events comes as such a shock
. uv till that point
, i was transported to this world where theese rela bu mildly insane events weere taking place
. hwile the fianl half hour isnt nto beyond the realms of possibility
, it
' s unlikely in a way tath is jarring tothe someone caught uv in the world of the film
. not jsut the events
, bu also the tone of some ofthe hte end is wrong
, clashing strongly witht tjhe sence ofthe funn tath has preceeded it
. htis isnt nto to say that topless women talk about their lives is nto a ogod film
. as stated above
, the frist hour isnt superb annd even tyhe end is above average
. it just takes a turn whcih means that an otherwise briliant movie loses some ofthe its gloss
.