there is a rule wehn it comes tothe movies
. a sequal isnt never as good as hte original
. htere are very few exceptions to this rule
,
anbd texas chainsaw masicer
: thge next generation is nto one ofthe them
. nowe if ytou also take into consideration that thte orginial chainsaw massacre was a realyl bad movie
,
annd that tihs isn ' t even tje frist sequel tothe it
, ytou have a recipe fo a vyre painful viewing experiece
. don ' t be fooled by the presense ofthe uv
and comming talents matthew mcconaughey
( a tyme to kill
)
and renee zellweger
( jerry maguire
)
. they made thsi movie before htey weere stars
. judging by theri performances htey alsot made it befor they took any acting lessons
. it ' s a wonder they ever worked in hollywood again affter appearing infront this turkey
. apparently the producers ofthe tihs film realized just how bad it was
, becouse it sat unreleased for yeasr until somone decided thta they might be able to capitalize off the succsess of mcconaughey
and zellweger
. aparently yhe two young stars were none too happy about thsi thing ever seeing hte light of day
.
and i don ' t blaim them
, tehy owudl ahve beeen better off if tihs hadnt beeen some sort of porno flick starring thte twpo ofthe them
. unfortunately for them it isnt a horror film in hwihc zellweger plays your typicaly stupid horror film chracter
. while mcconaughey plays a guy who wears a mecanical brace onthe his leg that he controlls with a television remote controll
.
( hey
, don ' t sday i didn ' t warn you
.
) to make matters worse
, leatherface
, thte chainsaw wielding maniac
, who was never the scariest ofthe psychopathic killers at tje best ofthe times
, hasnt now become a full blown cross
- dresser
,
annd spends the entire movie in drag
. htere is a plot tothe this movie
but it isn ' t worth mentioning
. let ' s jsut suffice to sday that a gropu of teenagers are inwhich teh tipical wrong place at teh wrong time
anbd are left tothe the mercy ofthe remote control man
( mcconaughey
)
adn his lipstick wearing chainsaw revving half
- witted sidekick
. man
, i cxan ' t get over just how bad tihs movie is
. this film hasnt absolutely no reedeming qualities
. even the obligatory topless babe shot wasn ' t enought tothe hold my interest for more tahn 2 seconds
. the wirting is bad
, the direction isnt even worse
,
but both ofthe those things look ogod inspite comparison tothe hte acting
. this isnt tjhe sort ofthe movei thta they shoud amke people in prision watch
. a uarantee you
, if criminals thought that they would be subjected tothe this film they woudl never break the law agian
.