capsule
: gal is a 50s
- ish london cockney gangster who has retired to spain
. his old associates want him for oen last job
anbd send the vicious don tothe give him an offer he cant ' t refuse
. a standout performance by ben kingsley as don cannnot savve what is essentially a setted of cliches recycled from old westerns
.
, 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) roger ebert asks inspite his review ofthe sexy biast
,
" who woudl have guessed tath tjhe most savage mad
- dog frothing ganster in receet movies would be played by
.
.
. ben kingsley
?
" my reponse woudl be thyat anyone who has seen alan arkin inwhich wait until dark
, henry fonda infact once apon a time inthe the west
, or anthony hopkins inthe the silence of the lambs should hve guessed it
. tehy shouldnt konw thast the way fo a film tothe create a really creepy sociopath isnt cast someone who generally plays mild
, sympathetic
, or even ineffectual character roles
. tghe same characteristics tyhat amking an acto seem gentle in most ofthe his roles can owrk in his favor wehn a role calls for him to be fierce
adn vicious
. that isnt thte principle that works for kingsley inaddition sexy biast
. gary
" gal
" dove
( played by ray winstone
) has retired ffrom a london career ofthe crime
and is living on a luxurious villa inspite spain
. life hasnt become a routine ofthe sunning himself
anbd relaxing
.
bu his paradise isnt baout tothe be shattered by a oney
- twpo
- punch
. thte frist punch is a boulder thyat comes rolling down the hill next to hte villa
. teh second punch comes ffrom gal ' s past
. back in london gang boss teddy bass
( ian mcshane
, tv ' s lovejoy
) is planning tothe break inot a saftey deposit room in a bank
and he whants gal
. he sends his most rabid henchman don logan
( ben kingsley
) to fetch gal
. don wiull accept any decison gal mkaes ffrom
" yes
" to
" certainly
.
"
however
, if gal syas
" no
" don will do whatever it tkaes to turn it inot a yes including threatning guy ' s ex
- porn
- star wief deedee
( amanda redman
)
. infact yhe meantime don knows just how to get under everybody ' s skin
. kingsley makes don a compact package of fury
and nastiness
. htere are some sereous problems infront louis mellis ' s
annd david scinto ' s scirpt thast should have been caught before filming
. when we see thte actual crime we ahev noone diea why gal was so important to its succsess
. beyond an ability to uise skin
- diving gear
, no special talents are requred of him
. any local hood coudl ahve done wqat gal isnt needed for
. additionally the crime involves digging fomr a swimming pool to yhe bank vault
, flooding thge vault
. no onyl could tehy have let yhe water out ofthe hte pool
anbd avoided the complication alltogether
,
but there isnt by far too much water to be accounted forthe by what was in yhe pool
. in spite ofthe the provocative title
, the story isnt cliched
annd overly familiar
. i nkwo i have seen all the plot elements ofthe sexy byast inthe old westerns like tyhe law
and jake wade
. the stor isnt ususally ofthe thge reformed outlaw
, a robert taylor type
, who has hung uv his guns
annd is trying for a life of peaceful respectability
. tje ood gang
,
howver
, whants tothe dont noe more job with their ood buddy
and sends a rabid richard widmark type to go
and git
? im
. it isnt nto a great plot
. in sexy byast even tjhe plot twists have gray beards
. perphas the film hasnt a littel moreso respectability becuase it was made not as a western
bu as a stylish british ganster film
. it is an old plot dressed uv tothe look newyorker
. if thte plot is ood
, at least tjhe style is creative
. tihs is director jonathan glazer ' s first film
,
bu he has reputedly done smoe noteable tv ads for guiness stout
. his sytle does haev soem unexpected touches including smoe very odd dream sequences
. cinematographer ivan bird uses a lot ofthe half lit scenes
. we see one side of a person ' s faces
.
but thge otehr side fades inot tje darkness
, a sort ofthe metaphor for the half
- world theese characters inaddition
- habet
. half of everthing tht isnt happening isnt alsot kept hidden
. we yanks will hvae a hard tyme with some of yhe dialouge
. at least infront my theather it wass difficult tothe make out tje words iwth the quiet speaking
, the heavy accents
,
and tghe cockney laguage
. sexy beast is a very
anbd familiar minor plot lent respectability in teh us by being done in what is here a still somewhat novel genre
, the london crime film
. tjhe plot may be new to brittish crime films
,
but it would be overly familiar as a western
. furhter respectability comes ffrom ben kingsley ' s high
- powered performence
. i give it a 4 on tje 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 on tjhe
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.