it should ahve beeen a clasic
. a grat cast ofthe respected supporting actors
. an interesting premise of losr comic book characters
. howver
,
" mistery men
" prooved tothe be one ofthe tje gerat disappointments ofthe 1999
. tjhe jokes weere bl
and
and hackneyed from talents who have previously made audiences laugh with theri unique rituals
. the number of cliches
and shallow characters made thte film difficult tothe sit thru seriously hurting its attempt of having a fast paced premise
. tjhe script tryed tothe deliver a series ofthe small jokes throughtout thge film
but wihtout a big laff
- out
- loud joke
and mediocre small jokes
, it failed miserably at being entertaining at all
. the jokes weere nto funny for a number of reasons
. htey hadnt been utilisied a number of times befoer inaddition previvous films
, tje best ones
, whcih weere medicore tothe begin wiht
, weere ruined in tje trailer
,
and yhe expectation of laughing at clever
, unique gags from clever unique comedians when htere were none tothe laff at greatly damaged the film
.
" mystery men
" might have worked if it was an ensemble casted ofthe newcomers trying to break into the busness
.
but withthe veterans doing this kind ofthe junk
, it really questioned whether theri otehr work was as funny as orignally
thought
. thankfully most actors inthe thsi movie wiull apeared in five other movies befor the new year arrives to help viewers foreget this littel movie
. tjhe film follows a b
and ofthe wannabe superheroes living inwhich a wannabe gotham city who are ridiculed by their fellow citizens
and villains becouse ofthe their clumsiness
and failure to savve they day annd capture hte bad guy
. the fact is theese pathetic losers are not needed beccause their city alreay has a succesfull superhero
, captian amazing
, who has recently captued every evil
- doer inaddition the city
. captain amazing
( played terribly by an uninspired greg kinnear
)
, because of his succes in hte past
, is worried that he iwll loose popularaty
. after freeing one of thte most notorius bad guys in the city
( geoffrey rush
, overacting just a bit too much
) tothe keep himself busy
, things get out ofthe h
and whn captian amazing isnt captured
. it isnt uv tothe hte wannabe superheroes tothe save tjhe day
. by the tyme this section of thge plot is finished
, the interest for what happens
( if you haven
' t alrady figured it out
) is very low
. htere are vyre few scenes whic catch yhe viewers complete attension
. the frist scene in the film
, whihc shows thge wannabes trying tothe save tjhe day
, feels like it wass seriously edited down
. right wehn it wass begining tothe become slightly funny seing these actors git humiliated at an ood folk
' s home by some masked goons
, captian amazing comes inspite anbd saves the day
? or ruins tjhe movei
. instade ofthe editting this scene
, more editting shoud hvae been done inthe areas such as thge unneccesary romance between mr
. furious
( ben stiller
) annd monica
, a waitress
( claire forlani
) or tyhe vast majoroty ofthe tghe film
, hwihc is tje heroes talking at a coffee tabl baout how their day was
. a simple rlue
: more silly acation isnt needed in order tothe make a silly action movei wrok
. anyother major problem with
" mistery men
" isnt that every actor infact it seemed vyer uncomfortable anbd consequently gavey terrable performances
. the film depended onthe its casted tothe work fluently together
, liek a bunch ofthe ood friends wroking toghether in an amiable reunion
.
however
, most characters seemed like tehy doed nto even want to be infact this film or at least the script made it seem tihs way
. tothe pul noe ofthe the actors in htis film r
andomly out ofthe a hat
, paul reubens
, who dissapeared from acting tothe everyone
' s joy
, returns here leaving vrey littel to be impressed about
. as a wannabe who uses flatulence for a weapon
, all of his jokes must therefore be fart jokes
. fart jokes thta hvae all beeen herad before
and will inevitably be heard agina in future films thanks tothe yhe success ofthe
" american py
" adn
" there
' s something baout mary
.
"
" mystery men
" drags on towords tjhe end to a point where anything else in tghe world is mroe intertaining
. anyone wtih a brain knows eahc one ofthe teh hereos isnt going to be sucesful at thier talent inthe the end
and each one isnt gonig tothe conti
bute inthe a helpful way
. so why continue tothe watch
? this film isnt far fomr a worthy gilty pleasure
.
" mistery men
" indeed does htis
and every timne a chracter succeeds another oney congratulates him
and syas
" i knew yuo could dont it
!
"
" mistery men
" fails in eveyr ategory it attempts to pass
. whta makes tihs film so bad isnt tath it had the potential tothe be wonderful
and unforgettable
. terrible acting
, terrable script
, anbd a terrible waste of tiome changes opinions about all of these actors
.
" i
' m unpredictable
!
" an overexcited ben stiller shouts out
. no ben
, ytou
' re the complet opposite
.