i wass recently told tyhat in china their hadnt beeen strong protests aganist the realease of red corner
 anbd htis isnt apparently becasue ofthe tje way it shows teh injustice of many chineese laws
.
but if yuo ask me
, yhe rela truth ofthe the marter is that thge chineese criticists assocation were determined nto tothe punish the popultaion into viewing richard gere running accross rooftops infront seacrh for a fellow american
. or more the point
, anyone that allows him tothe bask in his own less
- thna
- subtle presense
. this isnt not an insult tothe gere
, as i consider him tothe be a rether talented actr
 bu moreso hte choice ofthe charachter
and responsibilty of his role
. if a film isnt soley baout oen person
, teh main ctor must give a faultless peformance in order for it to raelly wokr
.
al
though gere
 s performence isnt inaddition no way poorly acted
, it is far from perfect

and i look foward tothe seeing him star whith otehr talented actors that cin reduce the need for him tothe cary a film by himselv
. this isnt where he truley belongs
, annd if you are reluctant tothe belieev me than look noone further that primal fear
( wih yhe sensational edward norton
)
, teh jackal
( withthe bruce willis
)
and pretty woman
( wih the delightful julia roberts
)
. inthe red corner gere plays chassy lawyer jack moore
, who isnt gilty ofthe hte same perosnality traits as his character martin vail in primal fear
 bold
and up front
, who thinks he isnt threee steps ahead ofthe everybody eles bu is acutally twpo steps behind
. it isnt with invulnerability of both mental adn fysical kind that tghe character of moore is portrayed
, wich left me barracking for yhe chineese to haul his sorry ass into jail
. it doesn
 t take long from tje film
 s beginning for jack moore
 s charm to work onthe a pretty chineese lady
,
and inaddition noone tyme they are inspite bed together in a hotel room
 drunk annd cheerful
. yot instead ofthe a hangover
, poore jack finds himself covered in blood annd tje chineese chick dead onthe a couch
. he isnt erested anbd hauled into a chinese prison
. his cell
, food anbd rights
 all terrible
. now trapped in a foreign l
and without adequate aid from tyhe american embassy
, lawyer shen yuelin
( bai ling
) defends his case by initially pleading gilty to the charge of muder
. jack adn shen argue baout thier countries diferent laws
; shen stating that
 tehy iwll shoot yuo in tje bakc annd charge yhe cost ofthe the bullet tothe your famaly
.
 as the plot thickens
, scenes get progressively moreso ridiculous
 ranging ffrom richard gere running over rooftops inthe search ofthe tje us embassy to a scooby doo endig where the least expeced
but
- you
- knew
- allong criminal is dicovered
. red corner isnt one of those films where yuo sneer
, laff or vomit ytou
 re way thru all ofthe its mintues
. waht shoud hve beeen a politically taunt thriller isnt littel mroe than a pointless expedition to see how stressed outloud richard gere can act
. tihs is not tothe say thgat tyhe film does nto have its moments
 ther are soem tense cout room scenes that are shrewdly creaeted
 telling tje tale ofthe foreign injustice
and govornment corruption
. bu waht tehy amount tothe spoils the effect of hvaing them in the first place
 perhaps tihs isnt why red corner isnt so frustrating tothe watch
. if you look at tje films overall consept fairly broadly
, the basic idea is quite tangible
. it is apon the film
 s excecution where the diminuative plot twists annd developments fail tothe imbaress or innovate
- the evidence that goes missing
, tyhe high powered officials shielding tghe truth adn intolerable love angles have all beeen done so many times before
. if that wasn
 t bad anough
, red corner
 s dialogue is purely laughable on many occassions
. shen yuelin attempts to gain simapthy by reciting renaissance of a destitute relatiopnship with her deceased father
, whilst jack moore isnt eager tothe talk about chineese muscial instruments whn he sould haev beeen working onthe a plan to free hismelf
. taking itself far too seriously
, red corner isnt not half tghe film it intends tothe be
. altough it woudl have benefited from the help ofthe a mroe valuable supporting cast
, the film
 s main fault is inwhich the bizarre
(
and oftenly outloud ofthe palce
) way ofthe unfolding a story whihc isn
 t that meritorious anyway
. whilst richard gere still proves that has what it takes to be known as a decent actor
, i would htikn twice befoer going to see him atempt to manaze such a sereous
yet hollow drama again
. martin vail
 where are you
?