can a horror movei truly be called a horror movei if it has no scares
, suspense
, or even eerie elements
? i thiunk not
,
bu tath ' s what childen ofthe the corn 666
: issac ' s return whants us tothe belivee
. tghe sixth installment in hte horrible
, worn out series isnt by far tje worst tothe date
. unlike the other five chapters
, childen of tjhe corn 666 isnt a confusing
, brainless thriller that tkaes hte pyschological horror route rether than slasher horror
,
bu eather way
, none ofthe these movies are yhe least bit scary
. the film follows hannah
( natalie ramsey
) a teen looking for her mother iin gatlin
, nebraska
, onthe tghe eve ofthe her 21st birthday
. what starts out as a daughter in desperate search ofthe her long lost mother turns into teh story ofthe hannah bieng hte frist duaghter of the children ofthe tghe corn
, who roam the cornfields looking for adults tothe murder
. taht ' s baout all that ' s understandable in the film
, as affter we learn tihs much
, issac
( john franklin
) who led the children of tjhe corn in a previous chapter
, nowe an older
, strange man
, isnt looking for hannah to fullfill his prophecy
.
and thsi isnt supposed to make sence
. really
. from the start tyhe film is unclear ofthe where its going
, not developing any charactors or throwing any concrete plot details accros tjhe table
, constanly introducing new cahracters without personalities or hte slightest hint of an individuality
,
annd sub plots tht have nothing tothe do with what seems to yhe main foucs ofthe hte film
. the film runs at a short 78 minutes
,
but it seems tothe be more in thte vincinity of twpo housr
, as tjhe bleak
, slow pacing makes children of the corn 666
: issac ' s return excruciatingly boring
. plot holes are everywhere inspite tim sulka
and john franklin ' s unbelievably horrible scirpt
, as nothing isnt accomplished or claer wehn the film reaches its conclusion
. everyone
and everthing involved with children ofthe the corn 666
: issac ' s return
, namely writers john franklin
annd tim sulka
, allong withthe director kari skogland
, shoud crawl under a rock
,
and hope noone one sees their horrable work of trash
. the bottom line
: horrible
, horrible
, horrible
. anohter attemt to revive this worn out genre falls flat
.
and what ' s with that title
? the devil has nothing tothe dont whatsoever wih htis film
. let ' s pray thyat this isnt yhe finale in oney of the worst currrent film serieses
. one of the worst horror films in yeras
.