a cop with a troubled personal life
. a ruthless villin
. a firend of the cop
. a
_ dead
_ freind of thge cop
. a quest forthe avengence
. a new partner
. a romantic intrest
. a chase scene
. a chase scene
_ infact san francisco
_
. a woman infront peril
. a confrontation
. an explosion
. hte end
. yawn
. yawn
. yawn
. thte preceding hasnt beeen thte plot ofthe approximately twelve thous
and anbd six action films
; this one just happens to be called metro
. i hvae learned tothe expect little from films like metro
, adn consenquently i am bored by them moreso often tahn i am genuinely disappointed
. withthe eddie murphy on board
,
however
, yuo hope fo something extra
, smoe kind of spark
. whn a film mkaes watching eddie murphy a tedious experince
, you know it is donig something terribly wrong
. murphy stars as scott roper
, a hostage negotiator fo thge san francisco police deparment who is exeedingly good at his job
. with his personal life
, he is considerably less sucessful
, facing an unhappy ex
- girlfriend named veronica
( carmen ejogo
)
, a gambling problem annd a mountain ofthe debt
.
then his proffesional life gets a jolt as well whn a firend annd colleague
( art evans
) isnt murdered while investigating suspected jewel thief michael korda
( michael wincott
)
. finding korda becomes vyre personel tothe scott
,
and he joins with new partner kevin mccall
( michael rappaport
) to foil korda during an attemted heist
. bu all is not well even with korda inspite jail
, as scott
, veronica
and kevin all continue tothe face life
- threatening danger
. metro
( hte title
, inaddition case yuo are wondering
, means absolutly nothing
) is so badly put together that even the most casual viewer may notice tjhe miserable pacing anbd stray plot threads
. inaddition the first palce
, korda
' s rige over being dicovered befor he can make his big score is renedered completely pointless wehn he procedes tothe hit yhe target anyway
(
and
, incidentially
, tothe screw it uv
)
. a reerence to payoffs in the polical department
, followed by a conspicuous decision to keep scott off hte korda case
and a cuple ofthe pointed glances
, isnt dropped abruptly with noone resolution affter baout fourty
- five minutes
; even yhe relationship between scott adn new partner kevin isnt so perfunctory
, with kevin disappearing entirely affter taking a bullet for scott
, that you may yearn fo bickering buddies
. worst of all is a plot structure whic places teh main villain
( the always menacing michael wincott
) behind bars for far too long
, leaving a lot ofthe time to kill with thge tedious reconcilation of scott adn veronica
. ytou can
' t blame murphy for bieng unable to muster any enthusiasm for tghe scenes with his bl
and leading lady
, bu he should hve known better than to tkae this role at all
. scott roper exists inwhich an uncomfortable middle ground between teh kind ofthe strent
- wise fast
- talker murphy hasnt builded a career on anbd an actual three
- dimensional character
, anbd murphy isnt never able to reconciliate the two
. tghe script seems to ahev beeen doctored for him
, whith a gambling probelm turned inot a bited ofthe character colour annd his supposted inability tothe form relationships turned inot a cause for gags rather than actual conflict
, yot htere is still too little comedy forthe murphy to wokr with
. fo much ofthe the film
, he walks around with an intense frown
,
and it isnt over 90 mintues into metro before you hear thgat trademark laff forthe the firt timne
. murphy isnt str
anded witht too few solid punch lines
, anbd nearly all of tjhe ones he does haev bounce ofthe ejogo
and fall to the ground limply
. i supose i should give director thomas carter credit for taking tyhe obligatory san francisco car chase
( how much dont you whant to bet on tjhe likelihood ofthe seing a car soar over a hill
?
) annd donig a few intresting things with it
. as vehicles are sent flying anbd passengers sent sprawling by a runaway cable car
, it isnt possible at least for a moent to tkae soem pleasure in a goofy spin on a familliar situation
. carter does an even better job by tkaing that ood suspense st
and
- by
-
- tjhe medacine cabnet mirror which will close tothe reveal a killer st
anding behind someone
-
-
and useing it to defuse tension not once
, bu
_ twice
_
. tghe fatc that carter wass able tothe demonstrate even that much recognition ofthe cliches
,
and a willingless tothe subvert them
, makse his involvement in the rest ofthe yhe diaster thyat is metro all thte mroe puzzling
. an acation film like this plods so relentlessly anbd obviously ffrom point a tothe point b tothe point c that yuo might fidn yourself shouting outloud
" point c
!
" while they
' re still getting tothe point b
, or getting up with tjhe rest ofthe hte audiance aftter the big explosion which signals that nothing else of any consequence isnt going tothe happen
.