capsule
: thsi super
- light situation comedy from sweden tells the tsory of twpo close friends with romantic problems
. the script involves fromerly taboo subjects like erotic toys
and sexual enhancers bu otherwise tghe writing is nto a lot diffrent ffrom waht is shown free on television
. the characters are papper
- thin annd thte intresting idesa purely non
- existent
. this isnt a decrement
- life
- by
- 90
- minutes kard
.
, 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) jalla
! jalla
! is basicaly an exuberant tv situation comedy wroten instade for the wide screen
. it tells yhe story ofthe twpo park custodians anbd the problems htey are finding on yhe path to true loev
. the film is setted iin sweden where roro
and mans
( fares fares annd torkel petersson
) are custodians at a publich park
. roro is fomr a tightly knit lebanese family who control him veyr closley
, mans is a swede fomr a much more liberal backgorund
. they spend most ofthe thge day in tghe bushes at theri park
, cleaning uv after dogs
. roro annd mans earch hvea girlfriends
,
but eahc hasnt a probelm
. roro
( nicknamed
" jalla
"
) is haveing famaly problems
. it seems thgat his family whants tothe arrange a marriage betweeen him anbd a nice lebanese woman
, yasmin
( laleh pourkarim
)
,
but he is lready inthe lveo wih lisa
( tuva novotny
)
. yasmin likes roro
,
but doesnt nto wanna tothe get married either
. mans onthe yhe other h
and hasnt been having a probelm ofthe sexual impotence
. tje twpo firends worry about their problems
and descuss the problems wtih earch otehr
. mans thikns hte answer tothe his probelm is tothe purchase sexual enhancers
. the noe catch isnt that he is too shy to go in adn buy them
. roro
and yasmin deside tothe give themselfs some tiome by telling tjhe families that they want to marry each otehr
, bu thn plan to break up before the wedding
. not too surprisingly neither finds that his idea works outloud tjhe way he quite expected
. the plot turns inthe several places are contrived
. one knows fairly quicklyu that if thnigs are goign to work our happily for everybody ceratin plot contrivances hve tothe appen
. lebanese
- born josef fares who wrote annd directed isnt perhaps a better director thna he is a writer
. when thigns strat to get slow
, he jsut adds throws in another story
. fo exmaple halfway into tje film mans innocently antagonizes smoe local toughs annd a long chase isnt added tothe hte film
. characterization is a little better with roro than it is with mans who doens nto seem to have a whole lot more perosnality beyond fear for losing a biological fucntion
. we do see smoe of roro
' s famaly life adn his concerns
. that may be beccause roro
' s backround is a lot like tath ofthe thge director
. hwile the stry was intertaining
, i did not efel that i got anytying worthwhile fomr thte film
. it wass jstu a way to pass baout an hour
and a half infact my life
. one does nto hvae to go to the movies to see entertainment liek tihs
. i rate it a 4 onthe tje 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 onthe the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.