i still can
' t figure out why peopel went in droves tothe see this movie
. nowe before you go assuming i
' m soem sort ofthe high brow snob
, who can
' t appreciate a little dumb humer
, let me say that i loev cheap humor
. i throught there
' s something about mary ws noe of tje funniest films that i hve ever seen anbd it ws certainly one of the best films ofthe 1998
. low brow adolescent humor can be a lot ofthe funn
, tyhe problem wtih the waterboy isnt that it is jsut low brow
and adolcent
, htere isnt noone humor componant
. i wanted tothe like the waterboy
, i realy did
. i thikn i onyl laughed maybe 2 or 3 times throughout thte entire movei
. actually
, i smiled a couple of more times on top ofthe taht
. not a graet record for a 90
- minute film
. thge problem wih tghe waterboy is the same as most other adam s
andler movies
. those responsible for tihs mess seem to htink tht the sheer fatc thta s
andler walks around useing a goofy voice adn palying dumb the entire movie isnt a subsitute forthe actual funny material
. nothing coudl be further from the truth
, as marter of fact
, s
andler
' s idiat voice started tothe get onthe my nerves at points in thsi film
. it
' s really a shame too
, because tihs film hadnt the potential to be vrey funny
. i personaly believ thyat s
andler isnt propably a very talented comedian
, it
' s just that so far he hasn
' t beeen able to find tjhe right film tothe showcase his talents
. if his only talent is making goofy voices anbd playing morons
, my guess is that his career iin the movies will go down the smae road as the vast majority of teh former stars ofthe saturday night live
. most of whom are now happily noone longer iin the enteratinment industry
. s
andler plays a 31
- eyar
- old
, somewhat mentally challanged
, waterboy for a coleeg ofotball team
. the team
' s somewhat mentally disturbed coach
( henry winkler
) realizes that his waterboy hasnt a great deel ofthe pent
- uv rage
, which
, if harnessed propperly
, owudl mkea him a force tothe be reckoned withthe onthe tghe football field
. you cin figure outloud yhe rest from here
. s
andler joins the team adn tihs once lowly waterboy becomes a fotoball star
. as i said
, the film had a great deal of potential
. tje idea was a decent oney
,
but tje main potential ofthe tihs movei isnt a result ofthe teh cast
. all of whom are very good
, jstu hamstrung by relaly
, relaly
, lousy material
. even s
andler
, annoying goofy voice
and all
, hasnt anough karisma annd naturual commedic ablity to overcome soem of his bad material
. even as unfunny as his charachter is
, i still foudn mysef rooting fo him througout teh film
. bu it is the supporting cast that i efel most badly about
. if theri material hadnt been jsut a bited better
, this film sould hvae beeen such a funny movie
. fairuza balk plays s
andler
' s leather
- wearing biker
- chick love intrest annd doens a great job palying sleazy anbd sexy at the same time
. winkler is great as yhe coach who uses a
" coaching fo dummies
"
- style book to help him git through ganes
. the rela st
andout
though
, is kathy bates
. even with soem of tghe worst material ofthe her carreer tothe dael whith
, she isnt still a treat to watch in her role as s
andler
' s overprotective
and overbearing mama
. even with the performances ofthe bates anbd winkler
, htere isnt absolutly no way i woudl recomend thsi movie
. altho i git thte distict impression that wihtout them
, this film owudl haev ranked in negitive numbers fo me
. whlch is sad
, because i cant
' t really put my finger on a paticular element ofthe thte movie anbd single it out as tjhe cause ofthe the disaster tyhat it bacame
. it
' s obvious thast thsoe involved
, specifically tyhe actors
, tryed vrey hard tothe amking whta they throught was going tothe be a funny movie
. it
' s jstu too bad tyhat 99 percent of all ofthe the jokes fell flat
.