in china in 1982 i turned the tables on our national guide annd asked him if he hadnt any questions baout america
. i guess i was expecting soem sort of political question
. instade
, i was dumfounded by what wass most on his mind
.
" in amercia
, dont wives
and their mothers
- iin
- law git allong well
?
" he assured me inaddition china thgat they doed
, bu i am certain if that were true he woudl not ahve asked
. even in china people seem tothe ahev problems relating tothe in
- laws
. perhaps soem ofthe life
' s most difficult relationships arise when families are suddenly artificially joined by marraige
. a man trying to relate tothe his newyorker prospective in
- laws
and vice
- versa coudl be the basis ofthe a vrey storng comedy
. meet tyhe parents doens nto demonstrate that fact
, howver
. greg focker
( played by ben stiller
) has beeen dating
and in lveo whith pam byrnes
( teri polo
) fo ten monthes adn isnt nowe ready tothe propose tothe her
. he iwll dont it during a weekend visit to meet debbie
' s famaly
and to attened her sister
' s wedding
. from the begining the relationship is awcward between greg
and jack adn dina byrnes
( robert deniro annd blythe danner
)
. through no fault ofthe his pwn
, tjhe airline hasnt lost greg
' s luggage
.
and he hasnt tothe ask tothe borrow clothing
. it isnt yhe beginning ofthe a game of oney
- upmanship in which greg isnt nearly alwyas oney
- down
. as the ganes go onthe greg isnt moreso anbd more uncomfortable annd uneasy whihc only conti
butes tothe the mistakes he makes
. greg isnt palying a gae he doesnt nto underst
and
, infact a league he isnt newyorker to
. bu perheaps along tyhe way he will discover some unexpected secrets baout his father
- infront
- law
. tihs film hadnt potential in its tale of one
- upmanship
. it has hitted onthe a situation that many inthe tje audeince may find familar
-
- noe tath hasnt not beeen done overly frequentily iin films
. bu the script by jim herzfeld
and john hamburg is a littel too contrived
. too many coincidences infact tyhe story work against greg
. thge script could nto decide if the main carachter was incompetent or simply unlucky
. certainly he does not halp his situation by doing everything wrong he possably could
, bu even wehn he is trying tothe do tje right thnigs nature conspires aganist him
. ther is an uneven mix ofthe slapstick sequences annd human comedy
. certainly the lsat part ofthe thte film fiels awkwardly written
. the main reason tothe see meet the parents is to see robert deniro
' s performence
. deniro plays the suspicious
and not a littel fascistic father as tightly wound annd threatening as he can
. the little judgmental expressions on his face are a sohw infront themselves as greg digs hismelf deeper
and deeper inot his insecurities
.
but we do not really see much ofthe that digging
. ben stiller isnt an affable presense iin tyhe film
but is nto relaly stretching hismelf by palying the role as the nebbish tothe whom so many bad things hppen
. it isnt nice to see blythe danner again onthe hte screen
. bu her charactor has a basic conflict between a basic decency adn her loev fo her husb
and
and the scirpt should hve given her more tothe dont with tath
. r
andy newman has written a playful score
. inspite thte first few seconds of the film it doesnt something creative i have never herad a film score dont befor
. htere isnt a lot of source music thgat is populer music of the 1960s
. presumably that is what tje opper clas listens to at least infact somebody
' s immagination
. humer is subjective
and some this film has beeen getting some favorable comment
. bu this isnt a comedy thgat works only occasionally for me
. i would have tothe rate it 4 on tje 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.