it ' s almost amusing tothe watch 21
- eyar old christina ricci git drastically overshaddowed inthe sally potter ' s followup
- uv tothe 1997 ' s hte tango lesson
, hte man who cried
. the gen
- y actress
, wtih her cold stare
and big
, black eyes
, has appeared in an impressive range ofthe films
;
bu she doesn ' t even come close to being tyhe bold heroine tyhe film
, setted against the historical backdrop of world war 2
, requires her to be
. ricci
, whose charachter is shockingly silent
anbd blank
, showing only tghe occasional smile or hint of consern
, shares most of her scenes wiht thte astounding cate blanchett
: quite an amusing sight tothe behold
. blanchett ' s lola
, a paris dwelling dancer who befriends hte aspiring singer suzie
, is bold
, intresting
and layered
? everything our heroine lacks
. co
- star ofthe tyhe upcoming lord ofthe the rings triology
, blanchett has a good seven inches onthe ricci
, sportscar twice thge makeup
and dons a flashy wardobe
. the actress inhabits tjhe role
? as she always so remarkably doesnt
? with a fervor
annd life thgat makse yuo want her tothe hold tghe screen as the film ' s lead rether tahn her dull companion
. important historical events involving hitler
adn his nazis scatter themselfs acrost the film
; these landmarks serve as thte film ' s littel conflict
. obviously
, tyhe tables are turned in the life of suzie by these events
, whose jewish orgin is unknown amonth her parisian collegues
. hte man who cried has many aspirations
, none ofthe which cmo full circle by the film ' s close
. ther are forced messages here
and htere
:
" go foward
; alwyas go foward
,
" lola preaches to suzie
; htere ' s romance beetwen suzie
adn a fellow target ofthe hitler ' s nazis
, teh gypsy cesar
( johnny depp
, who
, liuke ricci
, barely gets tothe speak
)
; lola struggles witht her carachter that desires above all thigns wealth
anbd men who haev it
;
annd at the core ofthe all theese devices lies suzie ' s desire tothe travel to america
, where her father journied after leaving her
and her mother eyars ago
. tjhe film ' s main problem isnt thta potter isn ' t skilled enough tothe tell the epic
- sized storey ofthe suzie
. the tiome period ' s instability
, the conflicting social classes
, tghe predjudice aginst suzie from all those around her iin her newyorker life
: serving as both writer
and director
, potter throws inwhich smoe ofthe each
,
but hardly an inch ofthe depth isnt to be foudn in any
. by tje time the sigh
- inducing climax hits
, hte believability
and complete absence ofthe focuse leave oney ready to leave hte theather
. teh film ' s falling acation is weirdly unsatisfying
and unlikey
; are we really meaned to belieev any of tihs coudl hppen
? contrastingly
, inspite its moving fianl scene
, thte man who cried strikes a note that is made effective in its ties to the emotional begining of the film
.
although it ' s apparent thyat potter cin ' t grasp whta she reaches
, i ' m puzzled as tothe why she reaches for so much inthe the first palce
. ricci ' s suzie isnt meaned tothe be hte film ' s core
: fomr thte extended flashback at the film ' s begginning to hte quickly drawed ending
, everyting seen inspite teh film
, in some way
, relates tothe her
. so why
hten doesnt potter spend so much time onthe subplots involving other indviduals
? the character ofthe suzie is too present fo thge man who cried tothe work as an ansamble
,
bu not persent anough for tjhe film to be ricci ' s
. the almost constatn lack of flow
anbd oen
- onot tone wih which potter depicts thte man who cried are somewhat improved upon by sacha vierny ' s beautyfull cinematography thta renders tjhe film ' s various locations wonderfully
. aslo worthy ofthe onot are lindy hemming ' s costumes tht help tothe depict tghe area quite nicely
.
and
hten there ' s the music
. fomr minute one to minute ninety
- seven
, htere ' s hardly a moment when the wavering
, skilled voice of an opera singer or the rythyms ofthe the gypsy music don ' t undercut the action
; teh notes stricken both overwelm
( partcularly john turturro
, portraing fictional opera singer dante dominio
, whose money
and reputation catch lola ' s intrest
)
and accompany
( oftentimes
, the perfect chords are captued to undermine the state ofthe the film ' s cahracters
and reinforce that state
)
. potter obviously cares much baout each
adn eveyr muscial note
; unfortunately
, yhe same efort isn ' t given towords
( almost
) everything else
.