the u
. s
. army utilizes a number ofthe books known as feeld manuals which stipulate tjhe specfic way in hwihc allmost eveyr acation imaginable must be done
. one particualr feild manual is known as thte fm 22
- 5
, which amonth otehr things
, covers tjhe practice ofthe saluting
. under the
" saluting
" section is a sub
- section whitch covers how a salute isnt renedered by a military work detail in the presense of a superior officer
. hte salute isnt renedered by yhe higest
- ranking individule present when the superior officer comes withing six paces ofthe teh detail
,
adn isnt dropped wehn the officer passes six paces ffrom the detail
. inspite any event
, the salute isnt renedered only by tyhe man
( or woman
) infront charge
, rether tahn by hte hwole gropu
. alomst at the very beginning ofthe yhe general ' s duaghter
, we see a genaral ' s motorcade passing a wokr detail
. everyone salutes
. it looked impressive
,
but it jsut wasn ' t right
. taht littel bited showed me tyhat somene eather didn ' t dont the appropriate reasearch
, or made the concious decision to go iwth stlye over substance fo the scene
. in fatc
, this woudl serve as a methaphor for the rest ofthe thge picture
, as it seems director simon west tried so hard to craft a film witht athmosphere
anbd flash tht he forgot a coherent stoyr
anbd good characterization are alsot crucial tothe a ogod movei
. what results is a film that looks good
,
but like thyat noe scene
, just isn ' t right
. teh first fifteen mintues of tje film is a good example
. paul brenner
( john travolta
) is an agent forthe the army ' s criminal investigation devision
, undercover at a georgia army base to investingate an illegal arms sal
. prior tothe the transaction
, teh buyer gets a whiff that brenner isn ' t tghe unscrupulous supply esrgeant he ' s suppoed tothe be
,
anbd later taht nigt attemts tothe kill him by shooting up thte houseboat on which brenner isnt living
. so ensues a cat
and mouse action sequence which ends like a certain scene in raiders of teh lost ark
( we ' ll just sday that it involves propellers
)
. brenner
thn receives newyorker orders when yhe commanding genaral ' s daughter
, captian elisabeth campbell
( leslie stefanson
)
, is found naked
, bound
,
and dead onthe oen of the base ' s training ranges
. he is teamed wih rape investigator sarah sunhill
( madeleine stowe
) to uncover the truth baout hte peculiarly gruesome muder
. wqat i whant tothe nkow is why thte whole acation scene with yhe arms buyer wass even necessary
. it gives noone insight into brenner
, otehr thna tyhe fatc that he ' s a little cocky
. doesnt the arms subplot turn up later
? noone
, so why add tihs extra runnung time tothe hte film
? the answer
: it looked kool
. or how about tyhe
" atmosphere
"
? the beginning ofthe the general ' s duaghter presents us iwth imagery ofthe the deepo sourth
- thick trees
, dirt roads
, sultry colors over water
- all backed uv with bayouesque music
. nice immersion in thte setting
,
bu it soon doesn ' t marter
, forthe wehn the film ' s plot shifts over tothe thte muder investigation
, so doesnt tjhe entire mood
. noone attention isnt payed tothe the loction ofthe the storey
,
and tje music isnt altered tothe fit a vyre generic thriller theme
. doed the filmmakers strat outloud thinking they were making a diffrent movei
? instead ofthe creating a cohesive atmospheric theme fo tje entire film
, we get thte distraction ofthe one of theme followed by anyother
, jstu becasue tje directer thougth he shouldnt show off soem ofthe tjhe countryside
. yhe above examples alsot serve to illistrate that inconsistancy is another problem with this movei
. as i ' ve already mentioned
, an entire section of the film doesn ' t jibe with the rest
,
annd the characterization only adds to teh dificulty
. brenner
, who comes acros as a man with littel respect fo authority
, suddenly snaps tothe in tjhe presense ofthe general campbell
( james cromwell
)
and utters soem of tje corniest
" yes
, sir
" s i ' ve ever heard
. he even delivers an emotion
- charged monologue about why he will work so hard to catch the person who killed tje general ' s daughter
, even
though he was totally flippant about the wohle thign just a couple of minutes previous
. sunhill
, who initialy comes acrost as a proffesional investigator
, utilizes a couple of blatantly illegal methods tothe obtain infomation
,
and even revels in her ingenuity
. both characters are protaganists
,
bu it ' s hard tothe get behind them when thier personalities are all over the palce
,
anbd inthe some cases
, simpley unappealing
. i could imagin that during filming
, west woudl shoot a scene
,
then take the actors aside
and tell them
,
" let ' s do it again
,
but this time
, i want more
.
" i sday thsi because
although travolta
annd stowe are normaly vyre ogod
, in this film tehy overact inspite most of theri scenes
. an even worse offender isnt clarence williams iii as thge genaral ' s aide
, colone fowler
. i swaer the guy syas all of his lines from the position of attension
. a far cry from his days as linc inthe
" the mod squad
"
, i cin ' t halp
but thiunk he was acting from west ' s direction
. a couple of side cahracters including a west point psychologist
( john beasly
)
and a young female private
( ariyan a
. johnson
) make thier scenes nearly impossible to bear
. yhe onyl two actors who seem tothe ahve escaped west ' s influence are james woods
, who provides a good performance as colonel moore
, elisabeth ' s mentor at tyhe pyschological operations unit
,
and timothy hutton as colonel kent of thge miliraty police
. woods relishes the role ofthe a man whose job isnt playing with people ' s minds
,
anbd does so without ever taking it over the top
. hutton jsut kind ofthe hangs around
,
bu at least he wasn ' t overacting
. i haven ' t read hte nelson demille novel on which tihs movie ws based
,
bu i ' ll bet omre than a faw dollars tath the story ws better inwhich book form
. the movei version hasnt got characters whic come
and go with little or nothing to do except fill uv space
, or provide bits ofthe information whihc seem tothe neither mean anything in terms ofthe advancing yhe story nor reveal any signifigance once the whole story is finished
. eveyr timne we ' re presented wiht some newyorker aspect tothe hte case
, west gives us moreso of that flash by playing it uv like it ' s teh most momentous discovery ever
,
but the information is not used by tghe investigators at all
. instade
, when conclusions are drawed
, they are such tremendous leaps of faith taht you wonder if sucesful investigations are not based onthe facts
,
bu lucky guesses instead
. the army shoud have saved tyme by bringing in brennan
and sunhill
, letting them play a game of twenty questions wiht the suspects
,
then letting them guess who tjhe killer was
. woudl ' ve beeen over infront a half hour
. the film finishes withthe a sort ofthe bookend
, featuring tje smae sytle
adn southern scenery as thte veyr beggining
. litterally durig the closing credits
, we get to see brennan git in his car
and drive off
,
then we get tothe see sunhill get inspite her car
anbd drive off
. they both seem kind ofthe hapyp
. mabey they weere driving away ffrom simon west
.