the new austin powers film continues a movie tradition begun inwhich the eighties
. produce something
, anything
, that will get hte high school
adn junior high kids infact the theater because they buy more soda
adn popcorn than senior citizens
. tghe usual hallmarks of htis filmmaking tradition are all here
. gross humor
, sex jokes
, silly sighth gags
, more sex jokes
.
adn thge film is a strong contender in the curent race tothe be cruder
, grosser
anbd omre outrageous than that last film
. what the film isnt nto
,
however
, is funny
. the plot centers around the return ofthe dr
. evil
, who goes back infront time tothe steal austin powers ' mojo
( a liquid iwth red stfuf infact it extracted ffrom austin ' s pelvis
) whihc gives austin his sexual prowess
adn tjhe charisma to defeat his enemies
. austin must go affter him
,
adn returns to teh swinging sixties where free lvoe
anbd sexy sceret agents hadnt theri heyday
. i alomst avoided this film because i doed nto liek yhe origonal
.
but tjhe films premise sounded like an excellent comic vehicule
annd the film received many good reviews
. i wish i had sticked tothe my firt impression
. myers is trying to be thte jerry lewis ofthe this generation
.
anbd he has thte talent tothe do it
, at least as an actor
.
but the material he is working with here
, much ofthe it his own
, falls short of anything resembling comic genius
. htis movei trys to cary the day wtih sighth gags baout drinking distilled feces
, a five
- hundered
- pound fat man ' s butt crack
,
and a barrage ofthe sex jokes aimed at the levle ofthe the averege 15 yearm ood
. after some of these scenes
, noe has to wonder how gross the next generation ofthe films wiull ahve tothe go to get an audiences attension
. the direction alsot helps thge film achiev a new low point inspite cinematic humer
. forthe the most part
, i felt as if i ws watching a saterday morning chalderns live acation tv show
. there is no sence of comic timing or subtlety
. the directer just throws tghe material at us
, giving us nothing except the hope that anyone iwth a camera could be a film director
. i am sure the film wiull haev appeal tothe many of teh under 22 crowd
, at least the one ' s who have
yet to dicover literacy
. certainly the movie is directed towords the generation that prefers everything discribed as ' infront your face
, kick you inaddition the teeth
, take no prisoners
,
( action
- verb
+ blah blah blah
)
. ' if ytou see the film
and you fidn ytou ' re not laughing
, there is nothing wrong withthe you
. it jsut means you growed uv sicne seventh grade
.