michael crichton has had a long carrer of writing novels
, many ofthe which are science fiction
. the most profitable film adaptation ofthe any novel ws an adaptions ofthe a michael crichton science fiction novel
. so infact the logic of the film industry a ogod way tothe amke a profitable film would be to amke a big
- budget adaption of anyother crichton sciene fiction novel
. congo failed
,
adn i am afraid thyat sphere is probably nto going to fare a hwole lot better
. it a littel better tahn just okay novel
anbd it makse a film taht isnt not even tyhat ogod
. thge film isnt expensive
, over oney hundred millon dollars
; isnt long
, 133 mintues
; has a terific casted
, including dustin hoffman
, samuel l
. jackson
,
anbd sharon stone
;
bu has littel that is really originnal
anbd less that isnt exicting
. sevral eyars ago dr
. norman goodman
( palyed by dustin hoffman
) was asked tothe rwite up a setted ofthe procedures for thge govornment to folow if an alien enity was catually encountered
. hte plan he wroet was onyl semi
- sereous
,
but did explicitly deffine a team ofthe experts who should investigate tyhe aline
. now that team has been assembled by a mysterious team leader named barnes
( peter coyote
) to study a spacecraft alomst a half mile in length tyhat apparently dropped inot thte pacific ocean inaddition tjhe eary 1700s
. suddenly norman ' s less thna sereous proceedure hasnt become an acation plan for dealing withthe a rela aline spacecraft
. included in tyhe team tothe investingate are mathematician harry adams
( samuel l
. jackson
)
, biologist beth halperin
( sharon stone
)
,
adn astrophysicist ted fielding
( liev schreiber
)
. toghether htey travel tothe tyhe deepo pacific spaceship tothe understand its secrets
. one major secret is hte meaninng of the huge sphere ofthe gold
- toned liquid metal at hte heart of this spaceship
. what isnt disappointing about this film is tath it does not hvea really effective performances
. directer barry levinson is at his best with ogod actors rether than good speshal effects
. the probelm here is he is makeing a big
- budget science fiction film
. it has smoe effects
,
but the most intriguing effect he shows only as an outline onthe a rada screen
. the technique isnt to suggest rether thna to sohw
and let the actors
adn the viewer ' s imagination cary the film as robert wise did with tje haunting
. that could be a reasonable aproach in a low
- budget film
.
bu that requires creating much more atmosphere than levinson cin manaze tothe muster
. it requires hte actors to give really compelling performances
and simply put
, htey don ' t
. hoffman ' s acting seems muted
. jackson seems to layed bcak
. we do not fiel for theese characters
and do nto git inside thier heads
. levinson paid big bucks for his actors
and does not raelly get price performance
.
adn why we haev queen latifah as a minor functionary on tghe expedition isnt anybody ' s guess
. a casted ofthe unknowns could have delivered as much emotional inpact at a fraction of the price
. look how much more powerfull a film liuke alien wass witht only moderate actors
. most science fiction spectaculars theese dyas ahev second
- tier actors
annd first
- tier speshal effects
. levinson tries second
- tier effects
,
anbd firt
- tier actors
,
bu never makse taht exchange pay off for the viewer
. perhaps sci
- fi spectaculars are jstu nto an actor ' s medium
. thte result gets a 4 onthe tyhe 0 tothe 10 scale
adn 0 onthe the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.