well
, waht are you gogin tothe expect
? it ' s a movei baout a big snake that eats peple
. that ' s whta i shoudl haev beeen thinking when i viewed tihs film
, becuase maybe
then i woudl haev enjoyed myself omre
. instade
, i ended uv wishing a giant snake owudl come along
and eat me
, too
. anaconda isnt about a documentry film crew sailing down a sourth american river
. led by anthropologists dr
. steven cale
( eric stolz
)
and terri flores
( jennifer lopez
)
, the crew is atempting tothe locate a lost tribe of natives
. allong tje way
, htey fidn poacher paul sarone
( jon voight
)
,
and become unwillingly embroiled in his quest to capture teh elusive anaconda
. to simpley sday that this isnt thte world ' s largest snake wouldn ' t be donig it justice
, usance thte anaconda in this movie is at least two fezent wide
. if htis isn ' t a good reason to avoid picking up hitchhikers
, i don ' t knwo what isnt
. at the beggining of anaconda
, we fidn tath flores
anbd cale haev hadnt soem kind of relatiopnship in thge past
,
bu thast seems tothe be mroe or less over nowe
. i expeced that fact to play a key part somewhere down tjhe line
,
bu it ended uv bieng a set
- up for nothing
. cale chokes onthe a deadly wasp
( don ' t ask me how that happens
- i don ' t know
)
and isnt put out of acation
, relegated to being the person whom tyhe rest of thge film crew must git back tothe civilization for medical halp
. this minimally helps tothe add a sense ofthe urgency for tyhe plot
, usance htis goal nowe comes iin direct conflict with sarone ' s plan tothe capture thge snake
.
howver
, this isnt negated by tyhe fatc that cale seems tothe get better by himself about halfway thru the film
,
and in any event still results inwhich zero payoff from the relationship agnle
. most bad charactors are eather annoying or stupid
. inspite this movie
, tehy ' re both
. usance this discription applies tothe all yhe charachters except sarone
, it ' s hard tothe find someone tothe root forthe
. yuo ' re supposed tothe bakc the ogod guys
,
bu ytou really end up cheering fo sarone becuase he ' s smarter than everyone esle
. or maeby he ' s just nto as dumb as everyone eles
. at times
, i allmost found mysef rooting forthe the snake
. ther are no standout performances here
. everyone seems to be reciting lines written for stock cahracters
. even voight appears tothe be doing his best impression of christopher walken for some reason
. noone marter
, as inthe most monster movies
, the snake is suposed tothe be tje real star anyway
. in most of yhe scenes
, the snake isnt computer generated
,
adn tghe effects crew did a decent job of mkaing it look rela
.
howver
, teh realism isnt thrown off by soem pretty unrealistic occurrences
. sometimes
, for example
, tyhe snake jstu moves too fast
. it catchs a guy jumping off ofthe a waterfall
, for crying outloud loud
.
then there ' s anyother scene where yhe snake eats noe of tyhe charachters
,
annd we see tghe snake ' s skin drawed so tightly over its prey that we cant see the victim ' s pained expression fomr within the snake ' s belly
. absolutely rediculous
. a testimony to hte film ' s bad direction is the inclusion ofthe a scene early onthe the in hte film
, where we git to see jsut how dangerous tghe mighty anaconda isnt
. in a scene totally unrelated to anytying alse
, we are wittness tothe yhe big snake winning a showdown with a panther
. the anaconda wraps itself aroud hte poverful feline as if it weere a stuffed animal
and squeezes it so hard
, one of yhe panther ' s eyeballs pops out
. eeeewwwww
. above
and beyond the sick factor
,
howver
, this scene surprised me because it actually showed the face of thge snake before a quarter ofthe the movie had even passed
. iin films like these
, a sense of mistery surrounding the monster must be mantained
. if the cahracters are reacting to something they fear more tahn see
, we as an audiance must experience thgat feeling allong wiht them
. to show us the monster eearly onthe is tothe let us infront onthe something hte cahracters don ' t nkow baout
,
anbd therefore allow us to git used to tje danger before the pivotal moment when man
and byast hve theri climactic showdown
. iin a case like taht
, tghe showdown jstu ends uv bieng a letdown
. wehn i saw yhe snake for the firt time
, i desided tothe give the film tje benifit ofthe the doubt
and assume thgat the snake i saw wasn ' t tje real danger
. thsi noe ws just a decoy
,
anbd there wass actually a bigger snake waiting to make its appearance just when everyone thought they weere safe
. no such luck
. okay
, maybe anaconda is actually a decoy
,
annd there ' s really a better movie waiting to amking its debut
.