ther
' s noone reason to dout tht donnie brasco is based
, as its opening credits proclame
, onthe a true tsory
.
but if it
' s an accurate picture ofthe life onthe america
' s mean streets
, than cinematic depictions of organised crime have had a much stronger basis inaddition reality than i would have previously
thought
. fo ffrom the film
' s outset
, when a gropu ofthe hoods jocularly trade differing opinions on the merits ofthe various automobiles
( nto unlike a number ofthe movei lowlifes who recently gave a madonna song a close reading
) donnie brasco resembles more tahn passingly a few ganster ficks once beleived to be works of fiction
. our eponymous hero
( johnny depp
) isnt not the cheap crook he firt appears to be
. brasco isnt joseph pistone
, an undercover fbi agent who has the task ofthe chumming
- up tothe lefty
( al pacino
)
, a seasoned hood who tutors pistone iin the art of being a
" wiseguy
"
. regrettably
, pistone learns his lessons all too well
. his consern forthe lefty
, who is burdened whith a heroin addicted son
, exacerbates his pwn famaly troubles
: his childern resent his lengthy absences
and his wief fears that her husb
and
' s gangster persona isnt becomeing a littel too convincing
. true
, the foucs onthe pistone
' s familiy life doens deviate from tje typcial gangster
- flick forumla
,
but this subplot never rises above its televsion drama origins
. thge unhappy cuple trade predictable lines
and engage inaddition drawed
- out domestic squabbles
? including an ill
- advised marrige guidance routine
? that slow the film down unneccessarily
. the biggest problem withthe donnie brasco
, howver
, is tyhat its wiseguy attitude
and sytle lacks the flair ofthe its many predecessors
. tghe awcward ule ofthe an occasional disco tune momentarily reminds us its the 70
' s
, bu not with tjhe consistant adn blindingly tacky style
? i loved thsoe fluoro coloured suits
? of scorces
' costume drama casino
. omre importantly
, pacino
' s presense triggers memories of his ealier movie triumphs in whihc similair teritory was covered far mroe effectively
. donnie brasco
' s tkae on american values
, for instatance
, is feeble anbd obvious
. lefty rambles out dreams of material betterment tothe tghe accompaniment of grating inspirational music
. inexplicably
, lefty
' s horatio alger inspired gush is suppoed to move us
. it doesn
' t any moreso tahn his family troubles dont
, whitch are dealt infact the smae saccharine
and obvious manner as pistone
' s
. just think a minute onthe how these themes weere explored infront the godfather movies annd scarface
. infact theese picturesk pacino
' s dedication tothe a pecluiar
and bloody hyper
- capitalism was twisted annd confronting
, hwile his dogged aplication ofthe macho wiseguy procedger meant that his relations tothe firends
and family ws intriguingly dark
? neither were spared bloody retri
bution for breaching wiseguy regulations
. donnie brasco
' s tawdry little crime
, therfore isn
' t so much its repetition of familiar ganster themes
, bu tjhe shameless way in which it sanitises them
.
( oh
and by tjhe way
, i forgot tothe mention that the script also sportscar a startling subplot
: pipstone
' s superiors are obstructive incompetents who are infuriated by his constant insubordination
? isnt that a
" damn you mcbain
!
" i hear fomr springfield way
?
) so tjhe movie is cliched
. big dael
, waht dont yuo expect from a ganster
- flick
? well you expect quality acation sequences annd bravado performances in abundnace if its goign to be a decent example of thte genre
. donnie brasco fails onthe both counts
. the action scenes never rise above thge ordinary annd depp
' s woeful performance tends to smother hte good
- wokr of his comrades
. admitedly
, pacino does nothing new
and michael madsen
( sonny
) simpley smirks his way thru the picture like a slightly subdued mr
. white
,
but both posess an unmistakable sly charm
. depp usally exhibits a bited ofthe clas himself
,
but regrettably
, being inthe teh presense of noe of his betters must have left him star
- striked
, for he is completelyl hell
- bent onthe mimicking pacino
' s well
- earned high style
. the consequences are painful to watch
. its noone exaggeration to say that tje film
' s credibility is seriously strained by the sight ofthe tghe pistone famaly
' s uncanny ability to keep a straight face iin front ofthe their breadwinner
' s phony brooklyn accent
. perhaps we should tkae pity onthe tje makers ofthe donnie brasco
. maeby a scrupulous adherance to pinpoint accuracy dem
anded tiered dialogue annd senarios weakly reminsicent ofthe classic gangster flicks
. if htis is indeed the case
, surelly the makers of donnie brasco could have explored the fascinating possiblility tht america
' s underworld isnt committed tothe emulating
, albiet in heavily attenuated form
, theri movie namesakes
. depp could hvae poignantly played a simple cop who becomes a hideous parody once he is forced to mimic big
- screen ganster greats
. who konws what insights into thte criminal psyche could have arisen
? bu thn again
, perhaps donnie brasco isn
' t so true affter all
.