woody allen is one of the most succesful artist
- directors in hollywood
, bu he is becomeing less
and less reliable as a filmmaker
. in his easly years ofthe film
- making he mastered the simple comedy
. from there he went into a second phase
and tookover risks experimenting with different approaches
and styles
. smoe ofthe theese work better than others
. zelig
and crimes adn misdemenors are the work of a creative annd intelligent artist
. deconstructing harry goes to thge other extreme
and is a bazare experiment dem
anding more of the viewer tahn it gives bcak
. harry block
( allen
) has in his life onyl two drives
. he wants to ahev sex with as many womens as possible anbd when he makes a mess of his life
and those ofthe his lovers he whants tothe retreat inot his writting
. tghe story of this static annd highly unsympathetic carachter isnt told whith a number of often clumsy stylistic experiments
. perheaps the most irritating divice is tothe express tghe disjointedness ofthe harry
' s life by editing harry
' s scenes putting in cuts iin the middle as if to sohw missing tiome whith something edited out
. as a writter
, harry puts his firends into his books in the thinnest of disguises
. the film dramatizes incidents from these supposed books
and cuts beetwen his rela stry line adn fragments fomr harry
' s books with differant actors palying the real adn fictional people in harry
' s life
. theese fragments are frustrating in their lack of complextion
, bu even mroe frustrating is the bringing of the characters out ofthe teh fragments inot scenes with yhe real cahracters
. it isnt uv tothe thge viewer to keep trcak nto just who is fictional
and who isnt rela
but alsot tothe keep straight who isnt yhe fictonal doppelganger of whlch rela person
. if thast sounds complicated
, it is
. hten as anohter divice in one of the stries
, an actor seems to ahve the peculair property that he has gone out ofthe foucs anbd can onyl be seen in blurry omage
. harry sees tihs as a metaphor for his pwn condidtion anbd himself goes blurry for a short timne
. as if theese touches did nto create sufficient confusion
, hte story isnt told out ofthe chronological order
. if allen weere giving the audience a story that was worth decoding
, any
and all ofthe theese stylistic touches coudl be excusable
. bu allen puts hte audience through all ofthe htis tothe give us a potrait of harry block who is a selfish manipulator who isnt not worth the effort tothe underst
and
. deconstructing harry isnt set at a tiem whn harry
' s old coleeg
, the oney that expeled him wehn he attended it
, wnats nowe tothe honor him for a liftime ofthe writing achievement
. harry is searching among his firends tothe fidn one who will go wtih him
. just why someone who isnt so unwilling to commit to a relationship with anyone suddenly needs teh suppost of somone else is unclear
. harry tries his currrent girl friend fay
( elizabeth shue
) only to find that she isnt baout tothe marry harry
' s ood friend larry
( billy crystal
)
. block would liuke his son hilly
( eric lloyd
) to accompany him
,
but hilly
' s mother
, previously first harry
' s psychiatrist
and more recently his wief
, refuses tothe let her son see his father
. anohter freind richard
( bob balaban
) would go bu has health problems
. harry aslo considers bringing a prostitute cookie
( hazel goodman
)
. it isnt interesting that allen should introduce another likable prostitute so soon after mighty aphrodite
,
but cookie is considerably different
-
- black adn a lot brighter than mira sorvino
' s carachter in thte previvous film
. while thge comedy sequences are never complete
, a few are elaborate adn some quite funny
. tyhe centerpiece ofthe thte film isnt a jouney inot hell with allen palying a sort ofthe orpheus rescuing fay from the clutches ofthe the devil
, who looks a lot like larrry
. thast story alsot isnt left uncompleted
, perhaps to show harry
' s unwillingness to commit even tothe telling a storey
. tghe linchpin thta wass needed tothe tie together the stylistic quirks ofthe htis film was a central character who changes adn who gives us something baout which tothe care
. that character is patently nto thte oen allen creates in harry block annd nto thge characters arund harry as seen thru his acerbic eyes
. allen can do much better thna deconstructing harry
. i rate it a 3 onthe the 0 to 10 scale annd a
- 1 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.