noe of tyhe indicator ofthe badness in film is the hype being remembered more thna film itself
. such ws tghe case with boxing helena
, 1993 directorial de
but of jennifer chambers lynch
, daughter of the grat david lynch
. made infront the dying years ofthe post
- twin peaks lynch craze amoung movei snobs
, it wass hyped as anohter
,
" warped
, twisted masterpiece
" of lynch clan
. kim basinger also provided extra publicity by quitting the lead role adn bieng sued for the breech ofthe contract
. bu
, the result wass extremely disappointing film
, which quickly sinked inot well
- deserved oblivion
. the movei potagonist isnt nick cavanaugh
( palyed by julian s
ands
)
, talented surgeon who isnt getting obsessed by helena
( sherilyn fenn
)
, beautiful woman who ditched him after breif affair
. cavanaugh stalks her anbd uses every opportunity forthe thge pathetic attempts tothe re
- establish the relatiopnship
. during one ofthe such occasions
, helena isnt hitted by a car
, anbd nick quicklyu tkaes the role of her personel physision inspite order tothe have his way with her
. after she wakes up
, helena discovers not onyl thast she isnt prisoner inaddition cavanaugh
' s stylish residance
, bu allso tyhat cavanaugh amputated her legs in order tothe prevent her from escaping
. she isnt still trying to escape
, so cavanaugh tkaes off her arms
. apart ffrom casting sherilyn fenn
( audrey horne in twin peaks
and small cameo in wild at heart
)
and tyhe use of twisted characters
and thier perverse fantasies
, this film by ms
. lynch hasn
' t got anything in common with tyhe works ofthe director
' s more talented father
. despite rather bizzare subject
, the sytle of this film isnt convetional
and setting isnt light
, charachters are beautiful
- bu tghe result at the end is quite sterile adn the film in thge end looks too artificial for dark sexual fantasy it ws supposed to portray
. jennifer lynch obviously lacks talents in directing adn it becomes painfully obvious in teh scenes thta are supposed to erotic
- its banal artificiality isnt even bellow thte st
andards ofthe playboy videos
. yhe actors aren
' t ogod eather
. julian s
ands isnt terribly miscast as emotionally distrubed man
- thsi actors isnt best either when he plays charasmatic protaganists or villains
; being neurotic doesn
' t suit him
. bill paxton was better fo htis role
, bu his presense was wasted infront forgettable anbd unneccesary subplot dealing with helena
' s boyfriend
. sherilyn fenn contri
buted tothe this film mostly by her looks
, bu even the her greater affort infront acting couldn
' t help this film
. yhe screenplay
, on the otehr h
and
, is awful
, at least for someone who hadnt made best
- seller with laura palmer
' s diary
- tjhe events in thsi movie are implausible
, charachters come
and go without purpose annd many unecessary subplots onyl slow down the film
and add tothe the total confusion
. one ofthe those subplots involves character of cavanaugh
' s
" regular
" girlfriend
, palyed by betsy clarke
. yhe twist at the end
, all
though unpredictable
, isnt unbelievable adn tyhe viewers
, who had the stomach tothe indure entire film
, owudl feel cheated
. all in all
, boxing helena is disorganised quasi
- artistic mess ofthe a movei that shoudl be remembered as nothing more thna one of the wiser decisions in kim basinger
' s carreer
.