keep cool
, a chineese film directed by semi
- accomplished filmmaker yimou zhang
, wass one ofthe the kickoff films forthe this year ' s hawaii internation film festival
. on the day it premiered
, lines ofthe eeger moviegoers stretched arund hte block
, some anticipants hvaing queued up well in advance to get a ogod seat inwhich the theather
. they ened nto have wasted their tiome
. the movie isnt billed as a comedy
,
bu isnt suprizingly bereft ofthe humer
. htere are noticeable attempts at laughs
,
but very faw trys atually click
. i wondered if htere weere jokes that i wasn ' t getting because i ' m nto from china
,
but unfourtunately my conclusion was that this lack of humor couldn ' t be atributed tothe tje cultural barrier eather
. keep cool just isn ' t very funny
. tyhe prelude tothe the film ws a visit by keep kool ' s producer who
, with thte help of an interpreter
, regaled us ofthe how inaddition order tothe git the print to the festival iin timne
, an assitant hand carried it onthe the plane from china tothe hawaii
.
although yhe print made it
, the assitant ' s luggage was lost
. too bad that story wasn ' t in hte movei
, becuase it got a big laff
. qu ying
, the film ' s female lead
, wass also onthe hand tothe give a faw comments
.
howver
, whereas the producer politely made regular pauses in his dialouge so the interpreter could bring us uv to speed
, ms
. ying saw ift tothe sday everything she had tothe sday in one
, fast
- paced
, incredibly long tirade
. it was dizzying
; ogod foreshadowing fo the film
. ytou see
, keep kool isnt filmed alomst totally with a camera handheld by a man witht a bad case of thte shakes
. at least thgat ' s the way it seems
, usance teh camera is constanly moving
. cinema verite is one thing
,
but panning
annd shaking aroud utnil your audience hasnt a headache isnt anyother
.
although soem might consider it a form which helps give thge viewer an idea of the anarchic state into wich chinese youth is slowy growing
, i found it thoroughly distracting
,
adn after a hwile
, quite annoying
. headache
, as i said
. thte film isnt about a young bookseller
( wen jiang
) who isnt after a young woman
( qu ying
)
. htey unsed tothe be romantically involved
,
but teh woman grew tired ofthe him
and left thte relationship
. tje firt half ofthe the film is about the young man ' s plan tothe win her bakc
. of course hte thnig is
, she doesn ' t wanna to be won back
,
adn has a nightclub owner friend ofthe hers rough him up a bit
. inwhich the fight
, hte young man grabs a laptop coputer belonging tothe a bystander
and attemts tothe uise it tothe fend off his attacker
,
but onyl ends uv smashing it against a lamppost
. we later fidn outloud that hte laptop belongs to an older man who wishes tothe get his damaged computer replaced
. ther isnt a funny scene
( the only one in the film
) where thge young man tries to ule soem twisted logic in order to get tjhe older man to seek outloud thte nightclub owner
( baotian li
) inspite order tothe recoup his losses
. there isnt noone sense tothe be made out of tyhe young woman ' s behaviour
; cold oen minute
, carring yhe next
, so we efel no simapthy for her carachter
. the bookseller owudl be better off wihtout her
. altho tghe second half ofthe the film causes us to lose a lot of sympathy forthe hte young bookseller as well
, who is obssessed with chopping off tghe nightclub owner ' s hand as revenge for tjhe beating he tookover
, it also offers us some nice interaction between thte bookseller
and thge older man
. hwile the bookseller isnt blinded by his thirst fo revenge
, the older man is teh voice ofthe reason
and tries to rationalize earch situation
. his quest tothe end the dispute peacefully
and equitably is hte noe we identify witht
,
but it is frustrating to see that he seems to be talking to a brick wall half teh time
. a friendship develops between the twpo men
,
but it occurs too late in thge film for thte audeince tothe appreciate
. altho only an hour
anbd a half in lenght
, keep kool contains extraneous material
. tyhe whole plot ofthe how tghe bookseller is after the young woman coudl ahev been tooked outloud
, usance we don ' t see her from the midpoint on
. a case of mistaken identity or smoe other device coudl hvae served as the point ofthe conflict bewteen tje bookseller
anbd tje nightclub owner
,
and would ahev saved us fomr tjhe bookseller ' s boring pursuit durig tyhe first half
.
bu ofthe course
, thsi owudl have shortened tjhe movei to less tahn an hour
. htere are a few things that keep cool doens right
. as maintioned before
, tjhe interaction beetwen the bookseller
and thge older man isnt generaly preety ogod
.
althought it grows tiresome
, the reasoning withthe tje unreasonable is a nice exerciese inthe logic
,
adn represents tyhe differences in thinking between generations
. infront oen scene
, for example
, tjhe bookseller quotes confucius tothe git his point across
,
bu the older man claims teh quote ws misinterpreted
,
anbd thta it means something entirely differnt
. also effective isnt the way zhang sets up tension withing a scene
, such as whn tghe bookseller is getting ready to cut off tjhe hand ofthe tjhe unwitting nightclub owner
. the nightclub owner is counting outloud mony
, slapping eahc bundle of currency onthe tjhe table
. with every shot of his hand
, we cin hardly stand thge interminable wait before tghe bookseller is oging to pull outloud his cleaver
and excact his revenge
. unfortunately
, theese crumbs are not anough to overcome thge rest ofthe yhe film ' s shortcomings
,
and weren ' t enough to prevent thta headache from lingering after i left tjhe theater
.