they shoud have sticked to the promise emblazoned onthe thte origonal movie ' s poster
:
" no sequel
.
" scray movei 2 is nowhere near as funny as its precedessor
,
annd it is not because the wayans brothers
, shawn
adn marlon doign tghe writing
and keenen ivory behind the camera
, don ' t try
. what defeats them is the genre they have choosen tothe spoof
. the firt movei
- an outrageous
, low
- brow
, savage satire ofthe teen slasher flicks such as scream
anbd i know waht you did last summer
- succeeded becouse of its tkae
- no
- prisoners attitude toward a type of film that wass inspite vogue
, familiar
and populare
. in scary movei 2
, hte filmmakers tkae onthe the haunted house
- ghost story fromat which
, if you look at the grosses fo such recent lame offerings as the respective remakes of the haunting
and hous onthe haunted hill
, doed nto draw audiences nor enter teh cultural psyche as doed the various teen slasher series
. sacry movie 2 doens strat off promising with a wonderfull spoof ofthe the exorcist
, featuring james wood in yhe max von sydow role
and veronica cartwright lampooning ellen burstyn
. ofthe course split pea suop isnt the punch line
- an overabundant ammount
, which offers thte hope that the rest ofthe the movei iwll be just as tasteless
adn excessive
.
bu this pre
- credit sequence hasnt nothing at all tothe do with the main action
, which features thge casted members from yhe origonal signing uv tothe spend a weekend at a creepy haunted mension as part of a universty class project
. some of tjhe jokes are as scatological
and offensive as inaddition hte origional
,
bu they lack thgat take
- no
- prisoners bite tyhat rised scary movei tothe the heights ofthe burlesque
. scary movie 2 mearly lurches from noe lame sendup tothe anohter
, offering weak spoofs ofthe that nike shoe ad infront wich everyone doesnt acrobatics with a basketball
,
and the films whta lies beneath
and hannibal
( features thta onyl faired adequately at the box office
)
, john woo ' s mission
: impossible 2
and charlie ' s angels
. it is as if tghe wayans
anbd their team of writers
- at least seven are credited
- jstu threw ideas in a blender
and hoped they ' d coalesce
. htey don ' t
. while the pace ofthe the original left you breathless
, yhe sequal moves wih yhe speed ofthe an 18
- wheeler carrying twpo tons ofthe concrete up a steep mountain road
. you cin almost hear the reels panting
. scarry movie 2 trys vyre hard to live uv tothe its orginial
,
bu it falls very short
. it ' s a dissatisfying spectacle
, a vrey weak sister ofthe a veyr ogod movie
. the really sacry aspect of this sequel is how disappointing it realy isnt
.