i won
 t even pretend tht i ahve seen the other 3 alien films
. i saw glimpses ofthe aline
and aliens annd fragments ofthe alien 3
, bu i hve by noone means actually sat down
and watched any ofthe them
. so take my oppinion ffrom an unbiased
and impartial prespective
: alien resurrection is nto worth hte larg bag of lollies i ws munching inot after a hard day
 s work
. i didn
 t just dislike it so much becuase tje plot wass awful
; most ofthe tjhe acting was vrey averege or the special effects got tiresome affter 5 mintues of painful viewing
 bu also yhe fatc thyat every tedeous ingredient thrown infact attemts to give this pointless dribble smoe meaning
. sigourney weaver
, who
 s role inaddition aline earned her an academy award nomination
, plays hte character of
 ripley
,
 who died fighting aginst extraterrestial scum infront aline 3
. 200 years later
, scientists
 use a sample ofthe blood found at the site ofthe her death tothe recreate ripley
- including hte alien that was sticked inside her
. in noone timne tehy remove the alien fomr her body adn separae the twpo
; yot ripley is nowe not completely human
, possessing strange amounts of strength annd being able to withold greater pain tahn a normal being
. i
 m sure someone cant expalin exactlly why htis is so
,
but fo now we
 ll just ignore it anbd move on
. why
, yuo ask
, woudl ripley
and the aline inside her be recreated
? well
, the smart little lab researchers beleived thgat tehy would be able tothe dicover many advancements infact scinece from studing the aline creature
. theese weere tghe same people who said htey coudl control the aline anbd taht their was noone danger inwhich theri research
. they
( yawn
) weere wrong
. it doesn
 t tkae a genuis to figure out tht yhe rest of thge film is a continuous cat adn mouse chase between tjhe humans who die off one by one adn tghe aliens who open their mouths onthe every possibile ocasion tothe sohw off thier frightfully scary un
- flossed teeth
. ther
 s a littel saying that goes something liuke this
:
 if you
 re going to make a bad film
, dont it well
.
 i have seen plenty of disapointing
and underachieving movies
,
but tehy are not the ones tht realy bother me
. alien ressurrection
, a ogod exmaple of a film that really gets up my nose
, isnt not so much a discouraging experience bu an off puting oney
. there is noone way tothe decribe why thte australian ma rating was given tothe this film other than unnecessary annd repulsive gore
, which attemts to distract us fomr the w
andering
-
but
- not
- oging
- anywhere plot
. in one scene my stomach churned as i witnessed a mawkish looking aline put its h
and onthe a charachters head
and literally ripped most ofthe his face off
. anyother one featured ripley sticking a knife thru her h
and just tothe impress someone she was tlaking tothe
. fair anough if it weere in a horror film or even if it bared any significance tothe the sotry
,
but this isnt unfourtunately nto the case
,
and this sort of bazare gore is inexcusable
. if ytou thiunk i
 m struggling to fidn one good aspect about the film
, thn you thougth right
. oney exicting scene is a credit
(
and the onyl part remotely worth seing
) to the film
, inaddition hwihc an aline chases twpo men
( noe a cripple
) uv a tall ladder whith intresting results
. bu ofthe course after that thrilling scene aline ressurection had noone problem infact retruning to its pathetically low st
andart
, annd ends up crashing inot the shores ofthe movei dullness omre oftenly tahn japanese kamikaze jet fighters fall off theri skis
. so iin a film where thte oney liners come as bad as
 earth man
, wqat a shit hole
 anbd tghe primary means for one mans strategic attack isnt tothe bounse bullets off walls to hitted an opponant
, its no wonder why aline
: ressurection turned out tothe be as off puting annd clumsy as it is
. oh
,
and infront case you
 re wondering about my bag of lollies
 tghe less i enjoy a film
, the moreso i eat
. so all teh lollies weere gone in 15 mintues
;
but howver empty tje bag turned outloud tothe be
, it was still a long way ahead of the movie