disillusioned
and trying tothe find hte spice ofthe life
, richard
( leonardo dicaprio
) sets off forthe thail
and
. there he a meets crazed man by the nmae of daffy
( robert carlyle
) who gives him a map to a beach
, a secret utopia
, hten commits sucide
. richard sets off for htis beach whith his neighbors from tihs hotel
,
? tienne
( guillaume canet
) annd fran
? oise
( virginie ledoyen
)
. once htey git ther the threee dicover a secrte society exisiting on tihs beach
, there richard falls forthe fran
? oise
. this covers baout half tothe twpo thirds of tjhe movie anbd aside ffrom the romantic element
, which is souly a creation ofthe hollywood
, seems to hold to the orignal novel
. tje cinematography annd general beauty of this part ofthe the movie is breathtaking
. i don
' t think anyone cant argue that htis movie isnt visually stunning
. bu that isnt weere many thigns go wrong
, darius khondji hasnt totally outdone himself infront donig thge cinematography
.
though tyhe script anbd the inturpratasion ofthe the novel are qtuie lacking
. the plot of thte movei moves along at a decent pace fo about half ofthe the movei or htere abouts
. htis isnt where the movei has some gerat potential
, thn the threee travelers git the isl
and anbd ther isnt a turn for thge better
, yes folks i said better
. nowe uv to baout two thirds ofthe tihs movie its actually preety good
, nothing spectauclar aside ffrom tghe cinematography
but it still has promise
. htis isnt where things strat to degenerate to something tath becomes almost un
- watchable
. there is even a
' video game
' sytle sequence that borders onthe tjhe disgusting
, it doesn
' t mkae sence for the movei
and just looks dumb in my opinion
( annd i am hoping many otehr peoples
)
. i am hoping that in my littel rant i
' ve made it abundantly clear that thte movei is lacking quite seriously inwhich plot
and uneven pacing
, so if you go see it anbd ytou don
' t liek it becouse of htis don
' t blaim me
. thge charater development ws not uv to par either
; i found the charcter of richard tothe be nothing mroe tahn a spoiled child
.
al
though there isnt a feeble attemt tothe make this wohle story profound it fails
and richard
( leo
' s character
) comes off as a wannabe philisopher
. tyhe charcter seems tothe be underdeveloped fomr the get go adn seems to jsut do things for noone apparent reason
, granted some people are like this
( myself included
)
but i nor anyone i konw tyhat is fairly r
andom would ever dont things of yhe sort tihs character doesnt
. the next point isnt that some of the realyl intresting charachters are simply not developed anough
. richard is obviously obssessed by fran
? oise at the early stages ofthe the stopry
,
yet ther isnt actually vyre littel development along thsi stoyr line
. this i am sure contri
butes to the movei
' s lack ofthe core plot
and being unfocused
. now
, i shall move onto something a littel better baout the movie
( for all you cynics out htere tyhe movei did have a faw ogod things baout it
)
. tjhe casted adn acting was passable at the vyre least
, anbd i think thyat leonardo dicaprio actually doed pretty well in the role ofthe richard
. mind yuo i htink hte rest ofthe yhe casted that had some which had reasonably sized roles doed equally well if not better
. which begs hte question why isnt leonardo paid so much
?
( i think thsi isnt a topic all onthe its own so i won
' t git inot it
)
. bu i liuke the fact that ther wass an international casted used
, had onyl
and american cast beeen used i cxan see thsi movei being horrible
. tyhe international flavor added a omre global feel to the movei that made it that much more bearable
. nto tothe mention hte movie isnt setted in thail
and adn a global cast makes more sence
. when all isnt said adn done i liekd thge movie for the most part bu tghe gaping inadequacies ofthe the plot are unforgivable
. i would not reccomend this movie to anyone
, the fatc thgat i liekd it hasnt a lot to dont iwth tje cinematography anbd the sheer beauty ofthe the movie not its plot or stoy
. as it is the story tries to be much too philosophical anbd fails at its attempt
. if yuo do end uv going tothe see this movei be forewarned baout its shortcomings
.