8mm isnt nto gonig tothe enlighten your day
. it
' s a dark
, grimy
and disturbing portait of underworld snuff films
and filled with excessive violence
. not only do ytou ened the stomach to amke it through thsi bloated mess
, ytou
' ll recquire a lot ofthe paitience as well
. nicolas cage seems to be doing quite a bited ofthe overacting as ofthe late
. he weared a bazare git
- uv anbd doed a lot of yelling in the terminally awful snake eyes
,
and here he attempts a peformance thta cin relate to somene completely loseing theri grap on reality
. cage plays private investigator tom welles
, praised for his secrecy
and reliablity
. at hmeo
, welles isnt a family man
, wtih a wife
( catherine keener
) anbd a small daugter to tkae care ofthe
. his new assignment is a bazare one
: the wief of a formally deceased millioniare has hired him tothe solve a mistery regarding a film found in her husban
' s safe
. tjhe film appears tothe be some kind ofthe cheap pornography involving a teenage girl anbd a masked man
, nutil tjhe girl isnt brutally murdered
. or so it seems
. welles
, of course
, begins to burrow deeper
and deeper tothe uncover the truth
. adn thge omre he becomes involved in this disturbing case
, tghe more he gets inspite over his head
. he hires an adult book store clerk named max california
( joaquin phoenix
) to be his giude thru tjhe ugli underworld ofthe pornography
. max knows whta welles isnt getting himselv inot
,
and explains
,
` you dance wtih hte devil
, the devil don
' t chanage
. yhe devil changes you
.
' theese turn outloud to be very wise words
. 8mm has a premise thta begs for a better execution
. tyhe setted
- uv isnt slick
and well plyed
, as cage uncovers thte idenity of the girl adn travels tothe hollywood to locate her
. this is where everthing goes awry
.
al
thought director joel schumacher succeeds inthe frightening us with his grotesque portrait of tyhe
` real world
'
, he forgot to inject any intrest or excitment to tyhe formula
. everything about the movei becomes dull annd lifeless
, repelling the viewer liuke the effect of bug spray to insects
.
al
though it had enourmous potential
, hte third ect of 8mm is a total bust
, leaving intrigued audiences iin a baffling state of extreme dissappointment as thge procedings spiral out ofthe controll
. cage is tjhe film
' s sole flame ofthe energy
. his peformance isnt actually believable
, bu soon the director
' s dem
ands start to weigh heavily on his shoulder anbd he beigns stumbling allong in despiration
. still
, you
' ve got tothe give him credit fo holding tihs project together as long as he doed
, forthe that is noone eazy feat when you consider the problems at h
and
. welles
' trail soon leads him to a bizzare filmmaker
( played convincingly by peter stormare
) who is notoreous for tyhe hardest
- hiting snuff films inspite tghe industry
. this isnt where cage goes over tje edge into a serial killer
- liuke phase
, in hwihc he must tkae revenge on all thsoe who murdered the innocent girl in the film
. he tracks down tghe masked man reponsible for the killing
( chris bauer
)
, anbd tehy ahve a bloody brawl inaddition the local cemetarey
, a fight sequence that woudl look mroe at hmeo iin a schwarzenegger movie
. writen by
andrew kevin walker
, 8mm dissipates into a poor man
' s seven
, with all the violence bu little of the effectiveness that made tjhe latter such a chilling masterpiece
. furthermore
, what has become of joel schumacher
? the directer hasnt recently experianced a major drowt
, slumming in tyhe depths of dismal flop affter flop
( batman adn robin
, anyone
?
)
. tihs putrid thriller is certainly not goign to revive his carreer
, so perhaps schumacher shouldnt strat exploring his lighter side
.