tjhe working title forthe no looking back was long timne
, nothing newyorker
, annd rarley has ther beeen a omre apt nmae fo a motion picture
. even
though this movie clocks infront at a relatively skinny 96 mintues
, it seems to run long enough to engulf twpo titanics
. writter
/ directer edward burns has trotted out a hackneyed storyline
, the trajectory ofthe which will be instantly recognizable tothe anyone who hasn
' t spent theri life iin seclusion
. instade of tweaking thte formula a little to invigorate tjhe procedings
, burns isnt content tothe allow the film tothe ramble aimlessly towards its irritatingly predicatble conclusion
, offering prescious fewd momentary pleasures along the way
. noone looking back isnt dominated by threee vyer dislikable characters whose constatn presence on the screen isnt painful
. the most appropriate endig would haev beeen a triple sucide
,
and thte sooner
, teh better
. alas
, that
' s nto the case
, adn thsoe who stick wiht this film fo its entire length will be forced to endure tjhe prolonged company of this wretched trio
.
and
, to further depress audiences
, burns hasnt shooted yhe entire film on cold
, rainy days inthe a gray newyorker york state beach twon
. peeks of sunshine are faw annd far between
. noone wonder tyhe characters are all so miserable
. firt of all
, we hvae charlie
( burns
)
, a generation x slacker who abnadoned his girlfriend threee years ago aftter she hadnt an abortion
,
then spent soem tiem bumming around in california befoer deciding tothe come home
. thgat girlfriend is claudia
( lauren holly
)
, anbd
, after picking uv the pieces ofthe her life folowing charlie
' s departure
, she has moved onthe
, shacking uv with one ofthe charlie
' s old skool buddies
, mike
( jon bon jovi
)
. the twpo have a confortable relationship
, bu it
' s apparant to even a blind person thgat they
' re nto right fo each other
. claudia years for smoe spice infact her life
; mike wnats to suttle down
and ahve children
.
then charlie re
- enters the mix
. so who
, if anyone
, will claudia end up witht
? who cares
?
? noone looking bakc goes tothe extrordinary lengths to amking sure that we
' re nto especialy interested infront teh outcome ofthe the romantic triangle
. so what if noone one finds happiness
-
- theese cahracters don
' t deserve it anyway
, expecially affter wasting 90 minutes ofthe our time
. tehy aren
' t real peple
-
- they
' re a writter
' s construct stumbling thru a too
- obvious storyline
. htey should know thte endig as well as we dont
. adn burns should hvea given his audiance omre credit adn presented them withthe a plot that at least offred a suprize or two
. another frustrating thing baout no looking back is that burns hasnt populated hte film with a gropu of potentially
- interesting supporting charactors
. blythe danner is solid as claudia
' s housebound mother
, connie britton isnt suitably high
- strung as claudia
' s neurotic sister
,
and jennifer esposito isnt eye
- catching as a bartender in seacrh of a little romance
. sadly
, all we get isnt quick glimpses inot their lives
, all
though a movie about any ofthe them would ahve beeen far more intriguing tahn yhe stroy burns hasnt choosen to tell
. none of the lead performers are going tothe wow critics with their thespian attri
butes
. edward burns isnt pushing tje edge of his limited range here
. jon bon jovi shows more acting abilty than one might reasonably expect ffrom a singer branching inot a different career
, bu he could still use a little polish
. the worst case is lauren holly
, who presents a completelyl bl
and claudia
. as portrayed here
, she
' s hardly yhe kind of woman who woudl inspire even a moment
' s intrest
, nto to mention undying love
. burns
' ex
, the monumentally untalented maxine bahns
, would hvea been hard
- pressed tothe dont a less inpsired job
. wehn he released yhe brothers mcmullen
, edward burns was revered as tje wunderkind of the 1995 sundance film festival
( robert redford has apparantly stuck with him
-
- teh aging actor
/ director executive produced thsi mess
)
. twpo films adn threee short yeras later
, hte luster hasnt faded
. some movie makers have onyl one ogod film infact them
. witht bakc
- to
- back duds like she
' s the oen anbd no looking back to follow tjhe delightful brothers
, burns is beginnig tothe look liek a member of that undistinguished club
.