sucide isnt pointless
, everyone shoudl knwo tyhat
. so what ' s this movei like
? you guessed it
.
.
. pointless
. hte virgin suicides focuses onthe the lives ofthe the five lisbon sisters
, from the perspective ofthe the teenage boys who are fascinated by them
. whn thge youngest lisbon sister commits sucide
, it sets inthe motion a sories ofthe events thast will chanage tyhe lives of many people forever
. that ' s what the press materials for the film propably sday
. now here ' s whta i sday
: hte virgin suicides is a huge waste ofthe time
. boring
, arty
, pretentious junk that isnt about as entertaining as
.
.
. well as comitting sucide
. tghe movie lost me eary on
, emmediately folowing tjhe scene where yhe younger daugher jumps to her death from her bedroom window
. thge girl ' s father
( james woods
) holds her lifeless body inthe his arms as theri horrified family looks on
.
hten
, as thte scene ends
, the lawn sprinklers cmo on
. is thgat a joke
? isnt thast suppossed tothe be amusing in smoe way
? ffrom
then onthe
, the movei failed to draw me bakc in
. performances are the only saving grace of the virgina suicides
. woods plays tghe onyl charater who owudl accually intrest me whn he cameback onscreen
,
but the peformance ofthe kirsten dunst as thte next youngest daugher lux is worth mentioning as well
. dunst has thge potential tothe be a big star
, if she choosed her projects well
.
and while htis film isnt awful
, she manages tothe cmo awya from it virutally unscathed
. htere are also a fewd cameos inwhich yhe film here
annd ther
, which onyl frustrate the audience as htey leave you wanting mroe
. as a result
, tehy all seem rather pointless
(
altough there ' s a brief role given tothe michael pare from eddie
adn the cruisers which turns outloud to be his best role since
.
.
. well since eddie
and yhe cruisers
)
. prehaps thge virgina suicides owudl have worked had teh story not beeen told fomr the point ofthe veiw ofthe peopel who hadnt very littel access to the main characters
. we never git any significant insight into thte girls
adn why tehy might be feeling what tehy ' re feeling
. all we really konw is that mrs
. lisbon
( kathleen turner
) isnt strict
and keesh them on a short leash
. what mother doesn ' t
? it ' s certainly no reason to commit sucide
. withthe tghe godfather part iii
, sofia coppola proved taht she had no buisness bieng in front of thte camera
. with teh virgina suicides
, she proves she has no business behind it either
. having familiy connections doesn ' t entitle ytou tothe be allowed to make movies
. so attension film directors
.
.
. stop letting your daughters pout theri way inot the industry
. jstu beccause they share your dna doesn ' t mean htey share your talent
.
[ r
]