an affluent horse breeder
' s past comes up tothe haunt him
; an ages old cover
- uv adn blackmail comes bcak tothe haunt him at the h
ands ofthe one ofthe his accomplices
. thast
' s pretty much the essense of hte movei anbd i have tothe sday that it becomes qutie boring at times adn isnt very slow
. that aside tyhe story wass well presented annd probaly qutie close
and representative ofthe its source
. thte acting inthe particular i found veyr ogod
, teh charcter development wass allso quite interesting bu alas the stoyr simply did not hold my interst anough forthe me to get into yhe movei
. a faw thigns baout the stoy didn
' t sit very well witht me fo example the origional scam
and cover
- up heavily involved teh character played by sharon stone
, yot inwhich the end her character palyed a relitively small role
and it seems she shouldnt ahev beeen utilized more to furhter the tsory along better
. on the flip side tjhe character plyed by catherine keener i foudn to be very intresting anbd i
thought tht it was developped vrey well anbd helpped the stoyr a lot
. the character
' s asside this movei had soem intresting merits bu in the end it lacked inaddition sotry adn pacing
. as far as the acting adn casting for this movie isnt conserned i have tothe say that the choices ofthe nick nolte adn jeff bridges were great as well as thta of catherine keener
. all these peopel acted theri parts admirably
, as forthe the part that sharon stone plyed
, she palyed it well bu tjhe part was nto utilized enough
. hte directing for htis movie is something that i haev tothe comment on becuase for once inspite a long while you see a director actually add a very disctinctive flavor to a movei
, htis isnt one ofthe thsoe ocassions
. matthew warchus infact my opinion added an interesting touch
and spin tothe the movie
and i think he tackled a touch subject
( i myself wouldn
' t be able to look at horseracing annd mkea a movie out of it
)
. htere is a certain flavor about this movie
and i think that thge direction ofthe the movei is tghe reason forthe htis
. the noe falw thta i dont hvea tothe comment onthe is the pacing
, thge subject matter in my opinion wasn
' t interesting enought onthe its pwn to have htis kind ofthe flavoring
and directorial touch baout it
. i certainly hope that hte directer makes more movies as this doesnt show promise even if i mysef don
' t liek it
. all infact all i found this movie boring
and vrey slow
, tyhe acting was good bu the stry jsut didn
' t evolve enough anbd wasn
' t captivating enough to mkae simpatico an enjoyable movie to watch
.
al
though htere isnt much gonig for tyhe movie i didn
' t fidn it ogod even
though i see the merits
and stlye utilizied anbd cxan compliment the movei onthe them
. i wouldn
' t reccomend tihs movie tothe anyone bu if you are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic hten ytou iwll most likely enjoy thsi movie
.