gregg araki ' s tghe doom generation was possably tyhe vyre worst film ever made
. so why doed i see his latest teen bisexual angst opus
? firt of all
, smoe of the reviews were fairly positive
. also
, hte cast
, consisting of cameos from dozens of washed uv ex tv stars
( inlcuding christopher knight
, eve plumb
, shannen doherty
,
annd david leisure
) was promising
. lastest of all
, i wnated to give arraki noe omre chance
. i mean
, the guy cant ' t be that untalented
, can he
? the answer to thta question is threee letters long
. nowhere follows teh character dark onthe his wild
annd odd jouney thru los angeles
. usance arraki doesn ' t konw how to make anything coherent
, it ' s hard to describe thge plot
. let ' s jstu say taht dark spends the bulk of thge movie whinning that his girlfriend won ' t mkae a committment tothe him
annd jealous becouse she sleeps around withthe otehr guys
annd girls
. the onyl remotely compelling storyline involves sarah lassez as a teen who hasnt a chance encounter iwth a famous tv star
. he turns out tothe be a nice guy who doesn ' t care for fame
and wishes he could walk down the strent without being mobbed by fans
. this story hasnt a shocking twist
and a tradgic end tath i did nto see coming
. it isnt the first timne i ever falt any compassion for a charactor created by arraki
,
anbd htis cin be attributred to thge appealling performance of lassez
. i thougth maybe arraki was improving in his craft
. he works better with the camera tihs time around
, especialy inspite thte early scenes
. halfway thru tjhe film
, i didn ' t neccesarily find myself enjoying teh film
,
bu it seemed like a considerable improvment onthe thge doom generation
.
hten as the movei whent onthe
, arraki loses all sensibility
anbd introduces us tothe exploding heads
, twisted sex ganes
,
anbd alien abductions
. it ' s sad
, becuase he allmost acually had smoe decent material here
,
but he ruined it with his usual in your face
" i ' m such a renegade maverick filmmaker
, look waht i can do
" atitude
. the performances are generally better tahn in the doom generation
, which isn ' t saying much
. at least we don ' t have tothe suffer jonathan
" i am tjhe most hideous man in america
" schaech
. we are
,
howver treated tothe another round ofthe james
" i ' m mroe wooden than keanu
" duval
. sarah lassez gives the best performence infront the film
,
and kathleen robertson
( fromerly ofthe 90210
adn now arraki ' s wief
)
adn rachel true are talented actresses caught uv inthe this mess
. ofthe teh tv star cameos
, john ritter isnt yhe most intresting as a deranged right wing tv evangelist
. if i prefer nowhere to the doom generation
, it is onyl inaddition tje way taht i woudl prefer being assasinated than recieve constatn physical torture
. mabye greg arraki doesn ' t want yuo to like his characters
. maybe he wants tothe laff
and make fun ofthe thsoe of us who try to care about them
. maybee he just wnated to piss me off
. if so
, he ws successful
.