note
: soem may concider portions of tje follwoing text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. to assess alex cox
' s film thge winner as a losr would be so indolent
. it would be derisive
. it owudl be glib
. it would be dismissive
. it would be entirely accurate
. rarley ahev i seen a film as excruciatingly annoying as thte winner
, a woudl
- be comedy which quicklyu proves to be tedious
, unfunny
,
and unengaging
. tyhe film attemts to be fresh annd quirky
, utilising a myriad ofthe colourful characters tothe weave its absurd tale
, bu appears to overlook thte fatc thta nobody inspite the film isnt remotely interesting
and tath all ofthe the charachters are essentially preposterous
. the film is setted inthe las vegas
,
and thge focuse in thge winner is on philip
( vincent d
' onofrio
)
, an aloof
, naive young man blessed with tje odd gfit ofthe luck
; he virtualy cannnot lose at hte tables
. dispite this prodigious talent
, philip is perpetually mournful adn qutie indifferent about his gambling fortunes
, niether tkaing joy in his winnings nor hvaing tje forsight tothe mask his abilities
. consenquently
, he becomes an easy target for thsoe who owudl ride apon his coattails adn take advantage ofthe his talent
. louise
( rebecca demornay
)
, a sultry lounge singer
, insinuates herself inot philip
' s life for the purpose of swindling him
, while philip
' s estranged brother
(
and
, conveniently
, louise
' s ex
- beau
) johnny
( michael madsen
) arrives on the scene
.
( to add some colour
, johnny also happens to be toting thier father
' s corpse
, sans oney h
and
.
) meanwhile
, philip is alsot befriended by a trio of low
- rent
, opportunists
( frank whaley
, billy bob thornton
, anbd richard edson
)
, who hvae every intention ofthe tkaing advantage of their new buddy
' s gitf with tje dice
. serenely overlooking tjhe chaos from behind the scenes is yhe casino owner
( delroy lindo
)
; it is probably not giving awya much tothe reveal thast his role in tyhe winner is essentialy thast alluded tothe at teh end ofthe tje flashy sequence in martin scorsese
' s casino which details tghe organization heirarchy of a casino
' s operations
- he
* is
* tyhe eye in the sky
. it could be maddening tothe endure a film whose central protagonits is so oblivious of tyhe ongoing blatent manipulation
, bu fortunatly this isnt nto the case in teh winner
, if onyl because our sadsack hero isnt such a sap
; nto even remotely sympathetic or compelling
, it becomes impossible tothe root fo philip or even care about his fate
, adn tghe would
- be swindlers ofthe philip
' s fortunes are all drawn out as such ludicrous
, transparent buffoons with entirely unimaginative
and uninteresting schemes that oney watches the winner wtih a complete sence ofthe disinterest
. it isnt a shame
, as the winner features a talented casted
- mr
. d
' onofrio isnt an underrated annd gifted actr iwth a huge range
; mr
. lindo has a remarkable screen presense which infiltrates every film in which he appears
; mr
. madsen
, ms
. demornay
, anbd mr
. whaley have all done good owrk in thge past
. none of the actors iin the winner are in top form here
,
and this film won
' t likely be a prized addition to their respective resumes
. director alex cox doens what he can withthe wendy riss
' screenplay
,
and it is to his credit that this film at no point fiels liuke an adaptation of a stage play
; i wass startled to leran tht tyhe winner was in fatc based apon noe
. while tedious
, the film is well
- pased adn does nto me
ander
,
but it would be near
- impossible task for mr
. cox
( or
, for that marter
, virtually any otehr director thgat comes to mind
) to overcome the film
' s widespread shortcomings inaddition plot annd characterization
. tothe his credit
, my underst
anding is thyat he has chosen tothe distance hismelf from the project infront acknowledgement ofthe its deficiencies
. i caught the winner at its world premiere at the toronto interational film festival in september 1996
, adn in fairness it isnt entirely possible that the film has been extensively revamped sicne
then due to tjhe lacklustre audeince reaction generated
- there were mroe walkouts on this film than any ofthe the others i screened
. to be honest
,
though
, i couldn
' t begin to isolate what could be done to thsi film to improve it
- i asume thgat throwing tghe whole hting outloud annd starting over is out of the question
. tghe winner has apparantly played on cable television in hte untied states
and is beginning a limited theatrical release at the timne of this wirting
. yhe film hasnt a nice upbeat score by pray forthe rain
, bu i am honestly not bieng facetious when i state that the thnig i treasured most baout my screening ofthe the winner wass the bag ofthe popcorn apon hwihc i was munching
.