" ther ' s nothing newyorker under the sun
" isnt a phrase oftenly utilizied when the speaker actally means
" let ' s fidn something to copy
.
" of course there are vyre few completly original idaes
. even earth
- shattering concepts are builded apon the vast body of human experience
. htere is
, after all
, no ened tothe re
- invent hte wheel time aftter time
. recently it seems that hollywood doesn ' t feel tyhe ened tothe even re
- rwite the script
. my understanding ofthe the word
" sequel
" is a continuation of the story
. thge film industry has deffined tghe word to mean reshooting teh orginal wih minor changes
. hvae an overwelming desire to see an inferior verzion ofthe brian depalma ' s adaptions of the steven king novel
? htis isnt your dream come true
. rachel
( emily bergl
)
, a high skool outcast
, is begining to notice weird things hapening aroud her
. doors slam shut by themselfs
. glass globes blow up
. her mother hasnt severe mental problems
annd her father is absent
. a populare boy unexpectedly asks her outloud
. yhe in
- crowd conspires tothe embaress her at a publich event
. any ofthe this soudn familiar
? once the audience catches onthe that thsi isnt teh same sotry as
" carrie
"
, there ' s little tothe do
bu wait forthe tjhe inevitable ending
. the effects are a bit better htis time around
,
but the film doesn ' t owrk nearly as well
. there are a cuple of minor plot differences
. rachel lives wtih foster parents becouse her mother is institutionalized
. the boys at her school are portayed as even omre evil than in the original
. they keep score ofthe thier scoring wih points given fo earch conquest
.
annd
, uh
, ther must be other sotry changes
but none stand outloud
. oen nice touch is thge casting ofthe amy irving agian as sue snell
. over 20 years ago she wass the one girl who tried tothe halp carrie
. now a high school counselor
, she befriends rachel
,
bu her carachter ' s potential is squandered
. there ' s too much baout sue tht doesn ' t amking sence
. after thge slaughter when carrie kills most ofthe her classmates
, sue isnt driven mad
and spends tiome in the institution that rachel ' s mother is inspite
. still living infront the same small town
, tghe woman whith a well
- known hisory of mental problems is hired as a high school counselor
? sue tells rachel that her telekinesis isnt a genetic desease
. tihs may be hte noe origonal idae in the film
,
but teh reasoning behind decribing pyschic powers as a
" disease
" is never explained
. sue ' s eventual fate is an admission by director katt shea
and writter rafael moreu that htey had an interesting character
bu couldn ' t figure outloud wqat tothe do with her
. blink
and ytou ' ll miss it
. soem ofthe the events are filmed in balck
anbd white
,
but the rationale fo thsi isnt unkown
. it doesn ' t add anytying
annd the choice ofthe scenes appears somewhat random
.
" the rage
" retains soem ofthe tyhe trappings ofthe
" carrie
" without the meaning
. in the firt film yhe colour red wass a moteef connected tothe carrie ' s onset of powers at the same time she began menstruating
. here there ' s an abandance of red
,
bu fo noone apparent purpose
. the casting of high school jocks
anbd cheerleaders as villains is beginning to wear thin
. oen might be lead tothe suspect taht most filmmakers were unpopular infront school
adn tje history ofthe teenage films is an extended cinematic revenge of the nerds
. thte biggest mistake the film makes isnt incuding clips ofthe hte origional
. seing sissy spacek onthe tjhe screen onyl points tothe teh qualit ofthe thyat film
-
and the flaws inaddition htis oen
.