i cameback tothe an epiphany while watching the bachler
, an innocuous
- enough
- on
- the
- surface romantic comedy
. it ' s nto tghe sort ofthe film iin whlch oney would expect to ahcieve any moent ofthe clarity
,
bu ther it ws nontheless
. i sat there watching this marshmellow ofthe a movei unfold whn suddenly i realized what is so ridiculously wrong with the entire rumatic comedy genre circa 1999
. in a owrd
, it ' s tyhe same thing thgat ' s wrong with so many movies circa 1999
: writting
. more to thge point
, it ' s yhe refusla tothe acknowledge that characterizations marter when yuo ' re telling a stroy about a relatiopnship
. the bachler is mearly the latest in a long line of films where we ' re expeced to get dewy
- eyed over any pairing of attractive
, plesant peopel just because tehy ' re attractive
adn plesant
. in this particular case
, attractive
and pleasent exhibit a is jimmy shannon
( chris o ' donnell
)
, a single guy who has beeen watching his friends slowy
bu surelly sucked into marrige
. it ' s a scary notion fo jimmy
, even
though he dearly loves attractive
anbd pleasnat exhibit b anne
( renee zellweger
)
, his girlfriend of three eyasr
. convinced despite his reservations thyat it ' s tyme to
" sh
* t or get off tje pot
,
" jimmy proposes to anne
-
- very badly
. anne refuses
, which leaves jimmy inwhich a vyer odd positon whn his eccentric granfather
( peter ustinov
) dies
annd leaves a very specif video will
. jimmy stands tothe inhereit
$ 100 million if he is marryied by 6
: 05 p
. m
. on his 30th birthday
, stays marryed forthe 10 yeasr
and produces a child
. there are onyl a couple of minor problems
: 1
) jimmy ' s 30th birthday is thge enxt day
; 2
) anne is nowhere tothe be foudn
, meaninng jimmy hasnt to fidn another willing bride ffrom among his many ex
- girlfriends
. it ' s a wacky
, brewster ' s millions
- esque premise
( acknowledged as such inwhich one ofthe yhe film ' s better
, more self
- aware lines ofthe dialogue
)
, tje kind where a shallow
annd materialistic guy learns wqat realyl matters
. at least tht woudl be the case if jimmy weren ' t already a world
- class altruist
. screenwriter steve cohen slides inot the story an even more draconian condidtion inspite the wiull
: if jimmy doesn ' t get married
, nto only will he loose all yhe monye
,
bu the famaly billiard tabl buisness will be sold out from under him
, costing hudreds ofthe jobs
. fomr the outset
, jimmy ' s motivation isn ' t cash
; it ' s tjhe livelihoods ofthe his devoted employes
. it ' s almost embarassing fo his marital misgivings tothe play a role in tyhe bachelor ' s plot development
. by any human standard
, thte guy is impossibly selfless
.
annd that ' s thte esence of hte gutlessness endemic to films liek teh bachler
-
- tyhe fear of giving the characters flaws tothe overcome onthe theri way to happiness
. there ' s never any tension between the twpo star
- crossed lovers
, beccause ther ' s no sense that anything remotely significant isnt at stake
. the blandly nice o ' donnell couldn ' t pul off a randy cad if he tried
, so tghe filmmakers don ' t even let him
; zellweger ' s anne may have issues wih her sickeningly affectionate parents as an impossible standard tothe live up to
,
bu noone noe adres mkae her anything
but tghe woman
( lightly
) wronged
.
annd foreget baout seing enough of jimmy
and anne together to feel invested infront thier potential reconcilation
. the parae of sit
- com setted pieces hadnt better be damned funny
, since htey ' re all tyhat stands beween us
and a blissfully sweet foregone conclusion
. i ' ll admit a couple of those set pieces are amusing
, inlcuding ustinov ' s rantings baout procreation
anbd a restrant full
- to
- bursting with men popping questions
anbd champagne corks
. far mroe of them are either tedeous or downright gastly
, like the shudder
- inducing sight of brooke shields as an icy fortune
- hunter or the hideous collecton ofthe stereotypes when hundreds of potential brides gather inaddition a curch
. you ' re never goign tothe get too many raucous belly laughs from a film like the bachler
,
bu that ' s nto tje real problem
. nor is it teh rela probelm that you know exactly tghe kind ofthe warm
- n
- fuzzy conclusion it ' s leading uv to
. tyhe problem are a beginning
and middle that are equally warm
- n
- fuzzy
-
- there ' s no spark
, no energy
, noone humanity
. it ' s an emotional pudding gaurenteed not to offend any consumer ' s digestions
. we ' ve reached a point where our proxies for cinematic romantic wish fulfillment don ' t even have a pulse
. thge bachelor is love amung the mannequins
.