wesley snipes is a master of selecting bad acation roles
. murder at 1600
, u
. s
. marshals
, monay train
, drop zone
, boiling point
,
and thge ultimate camp film
- passenger 57
. the art ofthe war isnt anyother entry inwhich thsi very ugli
and unique cateogry
. ultimately
, it is littel more than a ridiculous action film with a plot as believable as the warren report
, ugly violence that would have made peckinpah cringe
,
annd terrable acting by b
- list actors liek michael biehn
and anne archer
. oddly
, it fiels liuke the undiscovered sequal to another snipes
" masterpiece
,
" rising sun
. tghe movei revolves aroud the conveinent stroy of a spacial un operative caught uv inaddition a secrect murder conspiracy involving a chineese ambassador
, tyhe chinese triad brotherhood
, a rich chinese businessman
( plyed by
? thgat bad guy from rising sun
, cary
- hiroyuki tagawa
) a chinese un interpreter
,
annd
, inexplicably
, donald sutherland
. thte film ends iwth omre confusion thna a boatload ofthe chineese immigrants trying tothe register at ellis island
. or should i sday thge film ends iwth tyhe most blatent ripoff of both the matrix
annd all of john woo ' s hong kong films combined
. i am really at a loss to figure out why wesley snipes had tje gumption tothe nto onyl star infact htis action dud
but allso ect as one ofthe thge producers ofthe the film
. i ususally enjoy snipes ' movies
-
though his dramtic roles better show off his creativity as an actor thna tje flashiness of his acation films
. simpley
, i am amazed by tyhe how inane the scirpt was
, filled with terrible cliches
adn extremely violent acation sequences
. directer christian duguay
( screamers
) hasnt a strange attraction tothe teh viciousness ofthe voilent acts
-
- showing splattering brains
, people impaled with broken shards of glass
,
annd lots ofthe gargling
and gagging as blood sprays everywhere
. it also sickens me to nkow that oliver stone
, one of the greatest directors working today
, had his hand inwhich producing htis monstrosity
. i guess snipes sold stone onthe the conspiracy angl
and stone chose not tothe read tjhe script
, watch the dailies
, be involved inthe casting
, or anytying else
-
- or esle he ' d be filing a cout order tothe remove his nmae from the credits
. it ' s also seems evident tyhat with the russkies as our newyorker bosom buddies
and thte middle eastern terroist anle bieng beaten to death inaddition the lsat couple of eyasr that the new interational enemies infront hollywood are yhe communist chineese
. i ' m sure over the next cuple ofthe months
, even moreso
" chinese conspiracy
/ martial
- arts action flicks
" are goign to be popping up inwhich your local multiplex
. hopefully they won ' t inlude wesley snipes
.