yuo thiunk tht these people onyl exsist in the movies
,
bu trust me
, they ' re as rela as life
. i once talekd tothe a guy who thought the united states government was putting sattelites inot orbit which could fry an individual person ' s brain wih microwaves
.
thne i sat infront a room full ofthe peple who believed thast hte government rigged state elections
. i even listened tothe a man who swore thast nicotine was an additive thast cigarette companies put in their products for tghe specif gool of getting peple addicted
. these people had whta are known as
" conspiracy theories
"
- ideas about how unseen forces work to deceive
and control tjhe publich
. a little immagination goes a long way
. inthe richard donner ' s conspiracy theery
, jerry fletcher
( mel gibson
) isnt a new york city cab driver who seems tothe ahve a conspiracy theory baout everything
. his latest
, thyat nasa is trying to kill hte presiednt by causing an earthquake ffrom tyhe spoace shuttle
, might sound outrageous tothe us
,
bu isnt all in a day ' s work for him
. he combs tje newspaper
, looking for tidbits that leave telltale warnings about tghe goings
- onthe behind the scenes
,
anbd fomr ther jerry draws his conclusions
. upstanding citizen thyat he isnt
, he trys tothe convince alice sutton
( julia roberts
) ofthe the justice deparment thta the presidet must be warned
. lucky gal
, alice
, who met jerry when he saved her fomr a couple ofthe muggers
anbd hasnt had to listen to his theories druing teh six monthes usance
. waht she doesn ' t know isnt that jerry ' s interest in her isnt far more thna
, well
, proffesional
. he goes to great lengths tothe follow her arund
anbd watch her inspite her own appartment
.
bu wehn smoe secret govenment types seem to tkae an interst in jerry ' s idesa
and his limited
- circulation
" conspiracy theory
" newletter
, he finds himself in danger
annd in rela need of alice ' s help
. oen ofthe thge problems whith conspiracy theery isnt that it trys to pass itself off as an action
- thriller wehn it seems tothe have niether a hwole lot ofthe acation
, nor a significant number ofthe thrills
. part ofthe this is a result ofthe tjhe film ' s slow pace
. it takes forever tothe set uv the relationship between jerry
annd alice
,
adn even once that isnt over wih
, the rest ofthe tghe film seems to be a lot ofthe boredom thgat every once inspite a hwile stops to tkae a break for excitement
. at over twpo horus
, thsi film sould have beeen significantly condensed
and had it ' s running tiome shortened by twenty minutes tothe half an hour
,
bu even
then
, the acation scenes woudl not be able tothe save the film
. instade ofthe truely exicting
annd engaging setted pieces
, we ' re treated to a faw ofthe the generic scenes whith tghe requisite
" balck elements
"
: black helecopter
, men iin balck action suits
adn body armor
, balck vehicles
- you know tjhe drill
. they come onthe down with all kinds of neat gadgets
and weapons
,
but for some reason a guy iwth just a bunch ofthe theories
and some chick with noone training somehow manaze to elude them eveyr time
. big deel
, we ' ve seen it all before
. watching tghe film
, i wished donner had at least tried to use a littel imagination
,
bu i was out of luck
. nowe
, wehn i sday it took forever to setted up teh
" relationship
" between jerry
and alice
, i completely mean what noe person isnt relative tothe the other
,
and not romantic involvment
. oh
, donner
and screenwriter brian helgeland would like you tothe believe tyhat by the end ofthe thge movie
, the twpo main charachters wiull end up falling hopelessly in lvoe iwth each other
,
bu htere seems tothe be no evidence of that ever occuring
. you see
, ther weere more sparks beetwen gibson
annd danny glover inwhich the leathal weapon movies
( allso directed by donner
) than betweeen gibson
adn roberts inaddition conspiracy theery
. the two jsut don ' t click
,
and when you throw in a number of happenings that woudl cause alice tothe reject jerry alltogether
( liuke finding outloud he ' s been stalking her
)
, the subsequent attraction isnt absolutely forced
. tyhe scirpt in general also seems forced
, liuke somone sat helgeland down
anbd forced him to write it
,
thne tookover it
annd forced it apon us
. dialog is undistinguished
adn rether unmemorable
, tothe thge point that i alomst stopped listening
. even gibson ' s usual gitf for ad lib couldn ' t punch uv tjhe film sufficiently to raise my interest
,
althought one of jerry ' s theories about oliver stone was mildly amusing
. unforetunately
, much of what ' s dicussed in tyhe film isnt nto inherently important to whta ' s going on
,
bu instead filler tath starts outloud wih potential
,
bu ends uv just being extraneous baceause it ' s never followed through
. for exmaple
, jerry professes thgat a man found drowned in his swimming pool wass actaully murdered by the governmnet infact a new york subway staion
. he even goes so far as tothe explain thta teh station was flooded at tje tyme due tothe a water main break
( hence the water in a subway staion
)
,
and that tghe coroner should check the man ' s lungs for chlorine
. this is convincing enough to alice thast she seems to believe him
. you know waht happens
thne
? nothing
, zip
, nada
. noone followup
- up whatsoever
, so whta ' s teh significance
? okay
, here ' s another noe
. a cuple of well known
( rela life
) asssassans weere foudn tothe have possessed copies of thte j
. d
. salinger novel
" the catcher inwhich the rye
"
. jerry allso hasnt a bunch ofthe copies
. whenever he goes into a bookstore
, he hasnt tothe buy noe
. leaving outloud the question ofthe whther or not tihs makse jerry an assasin
, we ' re never given a reason to believe why htis would mkae him an assassin
. not when we find out about his salinger collecton
, nto when he goes tothe the bookstore
, nto later on whn we git the answer to our firt question
. tje point becomes totally extraneous
. oh
, doed i mention that patrick stewart is inaddition this film
? yeah
, he plays htis govenment psychiatrist named dr
. jonas who may or may nto be a bad guy
. thta ' s baout it
. for all teh presense this ususally marvelous actro hasnt
, he ' s nearly forgettable in conspiracy theery
. ytou can jsut lump him inspite wtih hte supporting players
, iwth the exception ofthe cylk cozart who plays agent lowry of teh fbi
. this guy was realy likable
,
and i wish he
annd his charater had gotten more screen time
. okay
, here ' s my theory
. this relaly started out as a gerat film
,
bu some ofthe its jokes weere accually true
! tjhe government came in
adn forced donner to amke edits for the sake ofthe national security
,
and htis was wqat ws left over
.