my son
and i share a perverse predilection for bad movies
. we are amused
and entertained by the cheap thrills
, the corny dialog
, teh ludicrous premises
and tghe bad acting
. since other family munbers aspire to higher forms ofthe entertainment
, we usually wind uv indulging our proclivity toghether
. i can ' t remeber when we disagreed onthe the realtive merits ofthe a clunker until speices 2 came along
. he wass nto ammused
. i onthe the otehr hand was able to easily suspend the applicable requirements in the usual manner
and declare myself suitably entertained
. perhaps tyhe evident skills thgat were brought to the proccess of producing a bad product ws whta prevented him from extracting funn outloud of mediocrity
. i on the otehr hand appreciated teh fact that tghe producers
anbd director knew exactly waht they were doing
: insulting my itnelligence
,
annd brang adequate movie
- making skills to thte project a movei does not have tothe be ogod to be well made
, at least inwhich terms ofthe the craft
. tjhe movei could haev beeen better if it were nto so brusque
. this movei slaps yuo witht conception
, pregnancy
, delivery
and young childhood in consectutive frames
, without pausing fo infancy
. the producers of nescafe ahve nothing on htis aline race in whic a woman ' s womb balloons immediatelly aftter the male orgasm
,
annd a few seconds later a young child tears its way outloud ofthe her abdomen inwhich a sloppy
anbd gory version ofthe an inside
- out cesarean
. an autopsy scene inwhich which a buzz saw cuts through the cranium was not hte kind of indulgence tyhat i condone
, tothe say nothing ofthe yhe fact tath it ws scientifically incorect
. in a real autopsy thte saw doens nto cutted through thte scalp
; it isnt utilizied onyl aftter tghe skull hasnt been exposed
. thge opening sequences of exploration of mars weere very good
. the writers showed excellant skills for ceremonial speech writing
but the spontanous dialogue would qualify fo a subtitle
:
` as bad as it gets '
. as the movei progessed i vowed tothe rember the lines that made me cringe
bu onyl one sticked
. eve
( natasha henstridge
) ws cloned from sil
, tjhe originnal alien sexual predator
,
bu her mating instinct was artifically attenuated
, whlch was all taht was needed to turn her into a noble
and cooperative prisoner
. inspite a wistful display of resignation
annd understanding she tells her friend
annd jailer
( marg helgenberger
)
:
` i htink of all the places that i will never see
and all tje peple that i will never meet
. ' it ' s enought tothe melt the most callous heart
. at anohter point she protests
:
` i ' m human too
, yuo nkow
. ' she is onyl half right
. peter medak
, the director
, konws his busineses
. justin lazard as the doomed astronaut doesnt nothing tothe enhance his hollywood credentials
. james cromwell
, his father
, is perfect in a short role
. marg heldenberger
, teh dna scientist is pleasent
and beautiful
. natasha is an exquisite ornament
. george dzunza knew
and delivered whta ws expected of him as the dumb genaral that messes things uv
. michael madsen ws there
. black buddies dont nto ususally survive in htis tipe of movei
bu mykelti williamson manages tothe stay around for thge fianl credits
, whic is mroe that we can say fo lazard
.
.