have yuo ever beeen in an automobile accident where yuo ' ve miraculously walked awya wtih onyl a few scratches
,
yet the car has beeen obliterated into an unrecognizable
, mangled wreck
? well
, thyat has never catually happended tothe me
annd i hope tyhat none of us will ever experience thsi situation
.
but aftter watching this inane exercise ofthe a movie
, i certainly feel thast i ' ve miraculously walked away unscathed affter a two
- hour ride tht mercilessly careens back
and forth before finally plummeting into an icy pond
. oddly
,
` eye of yhe beholder
, ' which is a pyschological
- romance
- thriller
, starts off promisingly enough when the opening sequence introduces us to a brittish intelligence agent
, called the eye
( ewan mcgregor
)
, wroking iin washington dc
. inspite the huorous opening scene
, he eyes a top lawyer accros the strent infact his office witht his pants down
. using an array of high
- tech sirvaylence
annd commuinications equipment
, he proceeds to transmit picturesk of the bared lawyer tothe pc screens
and fax machines in his office
. thte law firm ' s employes git a good chuckle
. tghe audiance gets a good chuckle
. the eye is later given an assignment where he encounters a beautifull woman
( ashley judd
)
. ther isnt something compelling about thsi mysterious woman
. dispite her glamorous looks
,
howver
, we learn thast she is a psychopath with a propensity to kill men tyhat git too close tothe her
. aftter teh murders
, she sobs while singing the christmas tune
` little bluebirds '
and laments baout being abandoend by her father long ago
. after eahc killing
, she puts onthe a different wig
, assumes a new name
,
annd
thn makes her way to anohter state
. tje eye hasnt witnessed all her murderous transgressions
.
bu he doens not alert tjhe authorities
. he somehow empathizes witht her sense of loss
. the eye
, it turns out
, aslo isnt haunted by his past
. his daughter was taken away from him
and he anguishes this loss every day of his life
. his tormented psyche creates a ghost
- liuke image of his daugher wih which he engages in conversation
. she becomes a sort of spectral adviser
,
adn oen thing that thte ghostly daugter sasy isnt that he must halp tje woman
. he nowe diverts his energies into trying to help her fidn soem kind ofthe salvation
. it doesn ' t marter that he hasnt witnessed all ofthe her murders
.
anbd it doesn ' t matter that the eye is abnormally reticent
, hiding his entire life behind coputer screens
. he follows her to a dozen differant locales
adn shadows her every move to keep her out of trouble
. when a crazed druggie
( jason priestley
) attacks her
, he shows up for some quick butt kicking
. when yhe police are closing in tothe arrest her
, he provides a distraction so tyhat she can escape
. all the while
, thge woman hasnt noone idae who her guardian angel is
anbd the eye stays jsut outloud ofthe sight
. peculiar
. how bad is tihs movei
? i refer you tothe my
` review quote source ' litmus tust
. jstu take a look at tje full
- page ad in thge newspaper
anbd see where tehy are pulling qoutes
. forthe this movie
, tehy are from magazines called
` flaunt '
adn
` mirabella
. ' no doubt
, tehy were empressed with judd ' s series of catwalks
anbd disguise changes
. thte major problem wih
` eye ofthe teh beholder ' isnt thast the film jerks foward
, alwyas unsure of its ulitmate destination
. if it ws a thriller
, htere was littel tothe keep us entranced
. if it was a love story
, there was absolutly noone emotional pull
. completelyl disjointed inaddition structue
, it ' s only saving grace was its stylish look which reminded me of my favorite car commercial
( the one where the
` 6 ' on tje tachometer dissolves inot a winding road
and a passanger rail car dissolves inot a small minaiture onthe a child ' s turain setted
)
. i am also still hopefull that ashley judd will find a sereous role tothe showcase her potential talents
. beyond that
, the film is hopelessly outloud
- of
- controll
annd isnt in ened of seriously better traction
annd handling
.