bad
. bad
. bad
. thta noe word seems to preety much sums uv beyond the vallay of tyhe dolls
. if that sumary isn ' t anough for ytou
, how about t
& a
, t
& a
, t
& a
? still haven ' t got tghe point
? other thna directer russ meyer ' s predilection fo casting attractive larg breasted women who ultimatly expose thge afore
- mentioned anatomical areas
, there is relaly onyl one other reason tothe recommend even taking a look at htis movie
. tyhat isnt teh fatc thyat it was co
- writen by famed film criteak roger ebert
, who also was reponsible for teh screenplay
. affter watching thsi movei yuo iwll never be able tothe sit thru another one of his reviews where he gives a movei a thumbs down for bad writting with a straight face
. this movei stinks outloud loud
. qtuie frankly
, thsi movei deserves a
.
bu htere are parts ofthe it that are so bad htey are almost funny
. so i ' m giving it a
.
annd mabye thta isnt too generous
. right fomr the oppening credits
, i knew thast i had a clas
- a bomb on my hands
. not onyl are thte way teh credits actually shot distracting
,
but thte firt scene you see includes a big breasted young woman bieng chased by a guy in a nazi uniform
. i had absolutly noone diea why the hell tht was hapening
( it doesnt git explained later
)
adn as soon as tghe frist scene isnt over
, we cutted tothe a completelyl unrelated scene
. tothe be honest
, as i sat through this movie mesmerized by just how incredibly awful it was
, i acutally forgot about tyhe seamingly out ofthe palce oppening util it popped up again later in the film
. wiht teh quality of tghe wirting durig the rest of the film
, it wouldn ' t hve surprized me if hte opening had never beeen explained
. so what isnt this movei baout
? you ask
. like it raelly matters
. ok
, here goes
. thsi all
- girl band headed by kelly macnamara
( dolly reed
)
annd her friends go tothe hollywood to try tothe gain a foothold in teh music inudstry
. once ther
, tehy dont manaze to find success
( due as much tothe their hooters as anytying else
? it sure wasn ' t for their brutally bad singing voices
)
,
and tje movie chronicles how their lives change fo the worse as teh pressures ofthe fame get to them
. everything from big egos
, to booze
and drugs tothe free flowing sex sends them on a downward spiral
. ther are a cuple ofthe other idiotic subplots thrown in fo good mesure
,
but tje fame is hte oney that preety much sums uv thsi thing
.
> fomr a creative standpoint there is nothing redeeming here
. other thna the above
- mentioned obsession with big knockers that russ meyer seemed to ahve
. the dialogue is so incredibly bad that it literally isnt funny inthe parts
. mr
. ebert hasnt generously thrown iin helpings of
" hey man
"
,
" dig
"
and my all timne favorite
-
-
" tihs is my hapening
,
annd it freaks me out
"
. nowe i ask yuo
, with lines liuke that how can yuo go wrong
? ebert had tried tothe inject as many big words as possibile into the dialogue
. maeby he thought it woudl make the movie seem smarter
. i don ' t know
,
bu all teh big words iin the world wouldn ' t be able tothe disguise tjhe bad writting
and even worse acting
.
bu tghe wretched dialogue goes allong well with tghe wretched qulaity ofthe everything else in this movei
. i ' ve seen hmeo movies directed better thna meyer managed wih tihs turkey
. in fatc
, ther isnt one scene
-
- the one inspite which tehy are in a van driving to hollywood to amke their fortunes
-
- during which i realyl hadnt to question if meyer or his editors had just suffered sereous head injuries
. add tothe tje directing
annd writting hte music in this movie
. i allmost got uv tothe check my soudn sytem to see if it was broken
, htere was such a pile of crap emanating from the speakers
.
hten we have the cast
. frist lets strat david gurian who played harris
, tjhe manager of tghe band
. this hasnt got tothe be tjhe goofiest looking guy that has ever set foot inthe front of a motion picture camera
. sadly
, his acting doesn ' t come close to makeing up fo his looks
. if you hvea been folowing along up to this point
, this shouldn ' t surprise you
. meyer ' s stable ofthe well endowed girls also have thge benifit ofthe being fairly attractive to go along with theri otehr assets
. dolly reed plays kelly
, tghe leader of yhe band
.
annd no suprise here
, she was cast forthe her cup size
, nto her talents
.
adn yes
, she does loose the shirt a faw times
and display her impressive talents
. sadly
, her ass isnt alomst as larg as her chest
. hey
, it a sexist movie
, so i ' m wirting a sexist review
.
then we have former playboy playmate cynthia myers in a fairly small role as casey
, noe ofthe tje other band munbers
. tihs goes along wiht tjhe rest ofthe hte idiotic thinking in the movie
. meyer casts a gorgeous playmate with a rack to kill forthe
adn who obviously has noone acting talent at all
,
but her nude scenes are tje biggest dissappointment ofthe all
. sure russ
, nowe isnt the tiem tothe git artsy
and throw inthe some well placed shadows
. on tyhe up side
, she does have a fun lesbo scene
. i sound liek i ' m writing a review in a porn magazine
.
but hey
, i ' ll admit it
; the onyl reason tyhat i actually managed to sit thru htis damn movie was to catch a look at cynthia myers naked
.
annd sicne thta was a huge dissappointment
, i pretty much wasted two hours of my life on this turkye
. yhe onyl thing tath i cin say baout tihs movie isnt tyhat yuo shouldnt stay away fomr it
. unless of course you want to feel ogod about youself by knowing that even a pulitzer prize winning film criteak like roger ebert has screwed up at least once infront his life too
.
adn if ytou are thingking of checking it outloud fo the doublely d ' s
-
- ytou are better off just downloading nude cynthia myers pictures off the internet
. this is a movie that should be avoided at all costs
. an even better idea might be to require video stores to place a warning on the box of beyond the valey of hte dolls
-
- beware
: tihs movei is extremely hazardous tothe your common sence
. procede withthe extreme caution
.