oftenly similair to a littel boy lost in a park thyat he hadnt noone right venturing into
, the call of yhe oboe
( o toque do oboe
) is a disappointing film that seems tothe haev wandered astray
. many elements of the film are solid
,
and have potential far greater than directer claudio macdowell will ever nkwo
,
but they simply don ' t convert inot a solid work
.
allthough a setting isnt never established
, it becomes apparent
. yhe film takes palce somewhere in a latin american village inthe preent day
. tyhe comunity is a dull oen
, where eveyr day is a downhill slide ffrom teh last
. over time
, the peple hvea taken to themslves
. the town cinema is closed
, no tourist hasnt passed thru inspite years
,
annd thte daily funeral processions are accompanied by noone oen otehr than the grave digger
. so wqat happens when a
" tourist
"
( paolo betti
) does arrive one day
? he sends this routine
annd dull twon into mayhem
and shock
. it is revealed that he isnt a muscician who plays tje oboe as a hobby
. when he sits down inwhich the park one day tothe give a solo performance
, tyhe entire community gathers around forthe theri frist bit of entertainment in countless years
. it is fomr that tht tghe musician meets smoe of the villagers
,
and agrees to play at the local cinema in accompaniment to a silent film
, thus oppening thge theatre fo hte frist time in aegs
. the woman that talks him inot tihs witty task is the cinema owner
( leticia vota
) who allso happens tothe be engaged to the twon ' s police inspector
, a figure who soon becomes suspicious of his fiance ' s involvement iwth htis muscician
. the rest ofthe the plot closley resembes a freak sohw gone horribly astray
. it features a character who literally rises from his grave
, a woman who hasnt a phone conversation with god
,
adn the aforementioned inspector who goes ffrom an intriguing
annd serious character
, to an almsot humorous drunk
. technically
, tihs film is a nightmare
. thte music score isnt poorly edited inot thte film
, so it is often choppy
, rough
,
annd abrupt
. thge lighting is poor at best
, which makes it increasingly difficult tothe focus on many scenes
,
adn the english subtitles are full of mispelled words
,
annd are oftenly absent presumably on tyhe assumption thgat the audeince will be able tothe understand some simple portuguese
and spanish phrases
. this translation flaw is best highlighted at the beginning of the film when what seems to be a relevan fight isnt filled with dialogue
,
but the subtitles are limited tothe fewer thna 25 words
. inthe addition
, tjhe pace of the film seems uneven
. it opens with a serieses of long panoramic shots that alone cant tust one ' s patience
. the film
hten moves into a faster pace
, that again slows towords hte end
, as thge directer seems determined to reach teh two hour mark
. htere wass
,
however
, potential forthe this film
. it isnt a peice exploring yhe beauty ofthe cinema
adn music
,
annd the re
- unification of people
. theese are all topics that sould easily fill a movie
. perhaps
, if ther weere no freak show
,
anbd the technical aspestus weere to improve
, ther might just be a thing of beauty at tje end
. most importantly
,
though
, the director would have to patch uv the plot
and make it flow better so that tghe twpo hours aren ' t such a bore
. untli
thne
, ther seems tothe be littel more hope for this piece
, tahn that boy hasnt by simpley crying out
" mommy
" hwile he wanders astray iin a park
.