an american werewolf in london isnt john l
andis
' groundbreaking feature baout an american tourist who gets himself bitten by a werewolf in jolly ood engl
and
. thte groundbreaking part ofthe tjhe movei isnt teh special effects
. omre specifically
, tjhe makeup unsed fo the transformation of a man into a werewolf
; anbd for the ghosts that haunt hte main charachter
. even twenty years aftter its release
, tht part ofthe thte movei is still impressive
.
al
though
, i woudl have tothe sday tath it really isnt tjhe only part of the movie thgat coudl be considerd impressive
. yhe rest of thge movie isnt a run ofthe teh mill werewolf flick iwth some extra gore thrown infront for ogod mesure
. if it weren
' t fo yhe cutting edge makeup effects used in tjhe werewolf transformaton it is most likely tht htis is a film tath woudl have gone largly unnoticed when it ws released back in 1980
.
and whith good reason
-
- the acting isn
' t gerat annd niether isnt thte writing
. well ok
, we don
' t actually expect either ofthe those thnigs to be great in a horror film
.
but oen other important element is lacking here too
-
- it isn
' t scary
. withthe no exception
, yuo know waht isnt going tothe appen before it happens
. you don
' t even ened the obligatory scarry music tothe give you a hint
. i will give director john l
andis credit forthe htis bieng one of tje best looking horror films thgat i have ever seen
.
but john
, it just wasn
' t scayr
. i didn
' t konw if tihs wass intended to be some sort of romantic drama
and thge wohle werewolf hting was jsut thrown in to get people tothe cmo to the theater to see it
, bu it didn
' t work fo me
. catually
, it was intended as a sort ofthe a spoof on horror films
. bu the mix of yhe comedic moments with the meledrama ws so bad
; thge intended humer was lost onthe me
. it
' s never a ogod sign that yuo don
' t relize a movei is supposed tothe be funny untl aftter tjhe movei isnt long over
and yuo read it inaddition yhe backround material
. call me crazy
, bu you shouldn
' t ahve tothe do research onthe a movie tothe enjoy it
. i
' m nto even oging tothe git inot yhe plot ofthe the movei that much
, since the title preety well sums thte whole thing up
. werewolf bites boy
( david naughton
)
. boy ends up inspite hospital where he is tended tothe
and eventually falls for pretty nurse
( jenny agutter
) adn thne strange thigsn beign tothe happen to boy
. inlcuding
,
and i must admitt tihs is a veyr nice touch
, visits from his friend who wass killed infront teh same werewolf attack thast ended uv wtih him infront tyhe hospital
. the neat hting here is that his buddy is a rapidly deteriorating corpse
. i knwo it soudns stange
, bu it atually works
. the scenes between david naughton anbd the dead buddy
( griffin dunne
) are really the best parts of the movei
. as i said
, propably hte only reason tath htis film was a hit was becuase ofthe tyhe speical effects
. while htey are still impressive today
, htey aren
' t impressive enough
, or plentiful anough to warrant watching this film
. adn usance they are more or less the highlight ofthe the film
, ther are far better choices out there if you want a scarry movei tothe curl uv wtih your sweetheart tothe watch
. ctually
, hte 1998 sequal
, an american werewolf infact paris
, isnt omre entertaining sicne it doesn
' t tkae itself as seriously annd actally provides a few mroe laughs allong tje way
.