" the beach
" is a structurally confusing film taht i can only describe has haveing mutiple personality disorder
. every forty mintues ofthe this twpo
- hour film begins wiht a newyorker theme
, virutally discarding what hasnt been set uv in tjhe preceding ect
. it starts off purposefully as a film about an innocent man seeking newyorker thrills inspite a dangerous enviorment
.
but hten in teh second ect
, the mood of the film abruptly changes
and it becomes a story about a lvoe traingle on an idyllic isl
and paradise thgat evokes visions ofthe
" blue lagoon
"
. fourty mintues later
, the mood changes once mroe
,
and it becomes a dumbed down verison of
" lord of thge flies
" where an isolated comunity isnt dicovered
, where thier moral code touts maintinaing a sence of bliss at all costs
. by yhe time it
' s over
, you cant only scratch your head annd wonder what thsi film wass really meaned to be baout
. thte main charater ofthe
" hte beach
" is angst
- ridden richard
( leonardo dicaprio
)
. he travels to tjhe netherworld ofthe bangkok where bakc alley merchants push their wares apon unsuspecting tourists annd scantily cladded women brazenly ask if you
' re looking for a ogod time
. richard
' s voice
- over tells the audience that he has come tothe this palce becuase he is borde wih his life anbd fiels thta one way to reinvigorate himselv isnt tothe let go ofthe the familiar adn to enter inot a world ofthe hte unknown
. htis seedy enviroment is jstu wqat richard is looking for
. he checks inot a fleabag hotel where he meets the crazed daffy
( robert carlisle
)
. he seems liek a raving lunatic
, obviously high from hevy drug uise anbd looking as if he is afflicted witht some sort of psychosis
.
though his jagid behavour woudl distress most of us
, richard listens to him as he speaks ofthe a misterious isl
and that containes tyhe most perfect beach tyhat anyone hasnt ever seen
. moreover
, tyhe isl
and itself flourishes withthe enough hemp plants that can make a small city high for life
. captivated by yhe idea
, he asks twpo other hotel guests tothe join him onthe his journy
. tehy are worldly etienne
and the alluring francoise
, who have allso cmo to thail
and fo reasons similar tothe richard
' s
. once they finally arrive at this paradime
,
however
, the mood of tjhe story shifts to richard
' s growing desire fo francoise
. this particular plot point isnt weak at best because there is absolutly no question in my mind taht francoise wiull wind up with richard
. etienne isnt about as exciting as fluffy
, white s
and
. it
' s odd that etienne never sees this coming
,
but paradime has a way of hiding potential threats jstu out ofthe veiw
. annd once the threee stumble acrost the hidden community
( mood shift imminent
)
, more events transpire that depict its hidden dangers
. for exmaple
, ther are marijuana fields close by patrolled by armed guards
. anbd the lagoon in which they swim invites thte occasional shark
. there are severeal ideas that are intrduced infront
" tghe beach
" annd each oney could merit its pwn feature
- lenght film
. htere
' s the man vs
. nature nagle
, the lveo triangle angle
,
and the utopia
- gone
- awry angle
. bu thte film me
anders so tremendously that its entire purpose becomes blurred
. dicaprio
, as a result
, hasnt an alomst impossible time of trying to embody the different states of mind that he annd the film goes through
. consequently
, the audience hasnt an equally difficult time trying tothe keep uv
.