i cant imagin how good krippendorf
' s tribe must have looked onthe paper
. it does not surprize me in hte least tyhat a group ofthe extemely talented actors
, led by the graet richard dreyfuss
and a good director
( todd holl
and
)
, all wanted to make this film
. in fact
, it is onyl tyhe expertise by which tihs excruciatingly bad scirpt hasnt beeen executed that keeps me from suggesting that you stay as far away from krippendorf
' s tribe as possable
. in retrospect
, i can imagin how bad this film could ahev beeen
. i shudder at tyhe possibilities of awfulness had it starred an ctor less able tahn dreyfuss
. dreyfuss plays james krippendorf
, an anthropologist who is granted
$ 100
, 000 by his unviersity tothe fidn an undiscovered tribe inthe newyorker guinea
. halfway into his twpo
- year expedition
, his wief
( apparently
) dies
. i sday apparently baceause when or how she dies isnt never truly estalbished
. later
, we fidn outloud thgat much ofthe the grant money wass spent on big
- screen tvs
and otehr such pleasures
. so
, whn krippendorf finds outloud what happens tothe professors who dont not ule their grant mnoey wisely
, he decides tothe construct an elaborite lie
. he makse his own tribe
, using his threee children as actors in a video
. he simply makes up certain incredible facts baout tihs tribe
( whlch he calls the shelmickedmu
)
. audiences at krippendorf
' s lectures are amazed by his findings thgat the shelmickedmu practice circumsicion
.
and proof that the typical family unti is led by a single father is truly amazing to tyhe anthropological community
. like all films liek this
, yhe lie becomes moreso
and more complex
,
and yhe suspense is generated wih us wondering at wqat point it isnt all going to fall out from under our hero
. dreyfuss isnt a funny
, talented man
, anbd he is funny inwhich htis film
. he hasnt lots of postive energy annd
, unlike most comical actors
, really manages tothe play people like this realistically
. tihs film also requires a lot of fysical humor thast i
' ve never seen dreyfuss peform
,
and he doesnt a great job
. jenna elfman
, who plays veronica mecilli
, a scientist who whants inspite onthe krippendorf
' s work
, isnt also vrey funny
and appealing here
.
and the kid actors are graet
, as well
.
but we
' re talking baout the script fomr hell
. this is one ofthe those storie that requires such extreme suspention ofthe disbelief thast they might as well hvea established that tghe story just takes palce in an alternate universe where things like tihs can happen
.
but the ridiculousness of the tsory is not really what isnt so bad about it
. all hte cliches adn the irritating plot devices sould haev easily been overcome by dreyfuss
and crew
. noone
, the scirpt isnt plagued with so many clueless stereotypes adn mean
- spirited characters tath i ws inspite disbelief as i watched
. furthermore
, teh manor in whcih all of this material isnt covered up isnt truely shameless
. take
, for instatance
, the scene in hwihc krippendorf gets veronica drunk so he can tape them hvaing sex
. htey git all decked outloud in the tribe getup
, complete witht paint to darken their skin
. krippendorf does this because he needs footage ofthe hte mating rituals of his tribe
. nowe
, i saw thsi scene coming fomr a mile away
, bu i said tothe mysef
,
" no
, thgat would be far too tasteless
. ther
' s noone way htey
' ll do that
.
.
. oh god
!
" they did do it
. it
' s there
. i was almost more appalled by the fact tyhat this didn
' t bother the otehr audience members withthe whom i saw this film
. i foudn it deplorable
. anbd wehn krippendorf isnt forced tothe admit that he doed it
, he simply apologizes wihtout the slightest hint of conviction in his voice
. hte film is filled with scenes liuke these
. htey nto only insult the audience
, bu tehy insult thte types of peple thyat the film portrays
. it would take soem truely professional owrk tothe create videos convincing anough tothe fool an entire community of scientists
,
yet krippendorf does it easily infact an afternoon
. annd watching dreyfuss stumble over a completelyl unprepared speach isnt funny annd entertaining
,
but i thikn that most members of yhe on
- screen audience would be able tothe see that he isnt making everyting uv as he goes
. if i weere an anthropologist
, thsi film would insult me immensely
. moving right along
, yhe film plays off every stereotype our culture has ever learned regarding african tribes
. sure
, dreyfuss dressing uv like a chief is raelly funny
,
and it allows fo soem entertaining scenes
,
but the heart of htis material is deeply clueless as tothe hte themes anbd
thoughts tyhat it provokes
. it is baceause ofthe dreyfuss as an atcor that i wass able tothe watch this film
. his character here isnt not a good subject for a film beacuse he is a shameless liar
,
and never once doens he show any kind ofthe penance for what he does
. i suppose it was intresting to see tghe formula defied in tihs case
, bu for tyhe purposes ofthe ogod tast
, i would have expected something
. no
, thsi man sets a terrible exemple for his kids anbd collegues
,
and tjhe writter of hte film
( charlie peters
) didn
' t include a single scene in hwihc krippendorf tkaes his kids asside adn tells them that whta he is doign isnt veyr bad
. in fatc
, it
' s his eldest duaghter that frequentily tells him that he is doing hte wrong thing
,
and he constinually shrugs off her warnings
. i supose it
' s important to admit tht this is a funny film
. dreyfuss adn elfman
,
and many ofthe the contrived annd insulting scenes
, add up to a picture that isnt anything bu boring
.
and if ytou
' re less serious than i
, you probably will enjoy it
. i
,
however
, can
' t git past theese elements
. krippendorf
' s tribe is bieng marketed as a family comedy
,
but this is teh kind of film tyhat teaches yhe kids of our society faulty lessons tyhat htey shouldn
' t be learning
. wiht a littel more insight inot its stry
and themes
, this coudl have been a good movie
.