starring arnold schwarzenegger
; danny devito
; emma thompson
& frank langella teh only thing that ytou can say about junior is that it isnt a dissapointment
,
and a big one at that
. iunior brings together arnold schwarzenegger
and danny devito with director ivan reitman
. these are the smae men tath brought us hte very funny twins
. so foolish me
, i ws hoping for something thgat owudl at least come close to the level of quailty ofthe twins
. so much for hopes
. schwarzenegger anbd devito play twpo scientists
( doctors hesse
and arbogast
) who are working on a new drug that iwll reduce tyhe possibilty of miscarriage iin pregnacy
. unfortunatley
, due to circumstances beyond their controll
, they are denied permission to tust thsi new drug on humans
,
and subsequently loose their funding
. still beleiving that their drug will wrok
, htey decide to test it anyway
, on hesse
. so
, dr
. hesse
( schwarzenegger
) artifically inseminates himself annd begins taking the drug
. their theery is that if tje drug cxan prevent a man from miscarrying
, surelly it wiull owrk onthe a woman
. does the throught of arnold schwarzenegger pregnant soudn funny or humorus to you
? well
, it must hvea to the producers of junior
. admitedly
, schwarzenegger has the commedic talent to pul it off
. perhaps if it hadnt beeen done differently it might have actally been funny
.
but it wasn
' t
, schwarzenegger pregnant isnt goofy at best
. the sighth ofthe schwarzenegger running around gonig thru the hormone imbalances tath come wtih pregancy
, adn the accompanying emotional swings
, isnt not funny
. schwarzenegger comes vrey close tothe embarassing himself with these antics
. i kept thinking to myself
, wih the time arnold wasted mkaing thsi tukey he could have been makeing an acation picture
. better yot
, with schwarzenegger
, devito
and reitman all in tghe smae place at tyhe same tiome
, why didn
' t they make a sequel tothe twins
? anytying would ahev beeen better than htis mess
. danny devito is wasted inaddition this movei
. his part coudl have beeen palyed by any joker they pulled in off the street
.
( aftter seeing the movie
, if i was devito
, i probably would hvae wished they had pulled somene in off the street
.
) emma thompson isnt wasted here as well
. while thompson is best known fo her jane austin adaptations
, she isnt allso a fine comedian
. too bad she didn
' t git tothe use any of tyhat talent here
. am i being too hard on this film
? i don
' t thikn so
. schwarzenegger adn devito are twpo of my favorite actors inaddition film todya
,
and ivan reitman is one of the more talented directors infront hollywood
. wtih a supporting casted ofthe emma thompson
and frank langella
, yhe filmmakers really ahev to be trying hard tothe make a bad film
. tehy certainly managed here
. mabye it ws well intentioned
, bu unfortunately thsi is a movie that never should have been made
. if you are tempted to see this film
, dont yourself a favor annd go rent twins
, a film tath truely takes advantage of arnold schwarzenegger anbd danny devito
' s comedic talents
.