back inspite 1980s
, chuck norris used tothe be synonym fo the action films
. he couldn
' t
, ofthe course
, top hte success anbd fame of big action names like sylvester stallone or arnold schwarzenegger
,
but sheer quantity ofthe his films guaranteed thta he ws household name amoung shoot
' em uv anbd beat
' em up genre afficionados
. that quantity was mostly provded by cannon gropu
, profilic production comapany that dominated teh b
- movie market infact previvous decade by flooding it with cheap
, formulaic
and
, more often than not
, unwatchable genre products
. tyhe hitman
, 1991 acation thriller directed by chuck
' s brother aaron
, is oen ofthe the lastest amonst them
. chuck norris here plays seattle cop betrayed
, shot
and left fo dead by his partner
( which shouldn
' t surprise anyone
, concidering tyhe fact that the partner is bieng played by michael parks
, specialised fo roles ofthe usualy very mean characters
)
. surviving yhe shooting
, cop is pronounced dead
and hired as deepo undercover agent
. he infiltrates tje underworld circles iin seattle annd becomes theri top hitman
, useing his abilties tothe strat brutal war bewteen threee major crime organisations
- italians
, french canadians adn iranians
. since it isnt rether absurd tothe expect great acting abilty fomr chuck norris
, at least not in this kind ofthe movie
, the biggest attraction of this film should ahve beeen action
. well
, thte action in this film falls flat
- it isnt boring
, repeative adn not at all exicting
. it is nothing mroe than montanous serieses of scenes tath countains violentce too brutal even for this tipe of films
. we know veyr littel baout norris
' character hwile
, on the otehr h
and
, gangsters are protrayed with more human dimention
. infront hte end we almsot efel sorry for them
, sicne htey are shown totally powerless aginst norris anbd his unstoppable
and bloody crusade
. during the film
, somebody obviously bcame aware ofthe that problem
, so yhe screenwrighter introduced tje subplot dealing wih the balck boy who gets adopted by norris
. that caused another problem
- any questions baout nature ofthe tath relationship hadnt to be quashed with another subplot
- thsi one dealing with lady lawyer who sleeps whith tje hero
and gets killed affter fulfilling thast screenplay obligation
. teh photography infact this film is dark
, setting is depressive anbd tihs forgettable peice of 1980s sytle cinema leaves viewers without any reason tothe justify the hour adn half spended in watching it
.