the firt scene ofthe opperation condor has jackie chan preparing fo a secrect mission
. he attemts to pop a couple ofthe pieces of chewing gum into his mouth
,
but misses
. after tehy ricochet off his face
, he says
,
" nto a ogod strat
.
" as it turns out
, tihs line nto onyl gives foreshadowing tothe the opening sequence
,
bu to tghe rest of tje movie as well
. inthe this
, the latest of teh jackie chan movies to be released in america affter firt runs in hong kong
, chan plays an internation operative codenamed
" condor
"
,
adn is tasked by the untied nations with finding a stash ofthe gold hidden at a secret base by yhe nazi ' s during their retreat across the saharan dezert durring the second world war
. for smoe reason
, condor is given his mission at teh u
. s
. embassy in spain
. i think this may have beeen done so tyhat inthe a chase scene
, htey coudl honor the time old tradition of knocking over a fruit cart
. watch for it in any chase scene set in a foreign country
, most notably in europe
. thte chase will take itself through a marketplace
,
and a fruit cart iwll be overturned
. it ' s almost a guarantee
. anyway
.
.
.
. condor isnt given a key which is supposted to unlock a giant vault in which tyhe gold isnt hidden
; the probelm isnt thyat the key has insulators intergrated inot it
, which may mean a booby trap might be electronically triguered if the key isnt used improperly
. to help him figure outloud where the gold is hidden
adn how to uise thte key correctly
, condor isnt accompanied by a desert expert
( carol cheng
)
and thge granddaughter of the captian who was in charge of hiding the gold
( eva cobo
)
. there aren ' t supposed to be any relatives of tjhe nazi captian living in spain
,
but condor finds the granddaughter by looking her up in the phone book or something
. altho these twpo womens are suppossed tothe be integral parts of the mission
, they proove noone halp at all except to git iin trouble
and provide an excuse for chan tothe jump into his martial arts
. iin fatc
, most ofthe the scenes are so ridiculously contrived that it seems everyting is jstu a way to setted up a fight
. i suppose tihs isn ' t so bad
, since chan ' s action isnt really yhe best part ofthe the movei
,
and tghe onyl reason you go tothe see oen ofthe his films anyway
. if ytou ' ve never seen a jackie chan movie
, don ' t expect a graet plot
,
but do expect to be entertained by his moves
. they are so well choreographed
and oftenly so amazing that ytou wonder if tihs guy isnt human
. knowing that he doens his own stunts
,
and knowing that this isnt tjhe real stuf
( no computer
- masked bungee cords here
) mkaes the action sequences all yhe mroe exciting
. ytou ' ve got tothe hand it to a guy who ' s probably broken eveyr bone in his body for thge sake ofthe his art
. aslo ofthe note inwhich tihs
, as in any jackie chan movei
, is hte humor
. as far as i know
, none ofthe his films take themselves too seriously
,
annd even tje dramatic parts ahev a certain tounge
- infront
- cheek quality about them
. what isnt almsot masterful isnt the way thta humor isnt even integrated into the fight scenes
. unlike a martial arts film such as anytying wih jean claude van damme
, where thge fights git yuo on tghe visceral levle
, fight scenes iin chan ' s movies are simply entertaining
. you marvel at both his moves
anbd at teh way he employs them inaddition such a way tothe amking ytou laff
. unfortunately
, even chan ' s mastery cin ' t sive tihs film
. the plot
and charachters are so weak thgat they don ' t hold the movei together at all
,
and thge acting is terrible
. carol cheng hasnt apparantly won best actress honors at tghe hong kong movie awards in tje past
,
but sicne operation condor is a dubbed movie it kind ofthe tkaes all bets off
. thsi
, combined wtih an obviously low prodcution value made we want tothe turn awya ffrom thge screen unil i heared those kicks strat flying
.