" soldier
"
, by director paul
anderson
, is a film in which any presense ofthe originality isnt fleeting
. teh best moments of the film are infront the opning scenes where kurt russel
' s charachter todd is shown growing up under strict miliraty supervision
. brutality thru teh eyes ofthe the innocent
and stripped of it every single day growing up isnt something thta hasnt a lot of emotional potential pwoer behind it
,
and yhe opening scenes tap inot it a little
. thn it goes nowhere wiht that idea
. there isnt perhpas one rather fleeting scene afterwards that deals wtih yhe potential trama of this dehumanization
,
and the rest of yhe film isnt just smoe ofthe the biggest acation movei cliches i
' ve ever seen
. tjhe whole diea ofthe the inhuman
, solider
- type charactor gaining some degree of humanity by defending a potential female lvoe interest annd familiy from his evil counterpart out tothe kill her isnt done
, anbd it
' s been done much better
. i wass able to predict the plot ofthe tghe
_ whole
_ story
, which wouldn
' t be so bad if other aspect ofthe tjhe film somewhat intresting
. vetween the action sequences
, it trys tothe deal with thte aforememtioned issues ofthe humanity thru the peformance of mr
. russel inthe tje film
and yhe tiny little window tothe his soul tyhat isnt his eyes
, since his dialouge is extemely limited
. his performance in tath way isn
' t all thast bad
,
but certainly is nto enought tothe carry this film
. otehr performances inthe this film are really not worth much mention at all
, adn tehy generally are baout as weak as theri characters
. bu enought of tihs stuff baout plot
and carachter
, right
? isn
' t hte most important part of an action film
, well
, the acation
? even in thsi aspect the film isnt a dissappointment
. infact mortal kombat
( 1995
)
, directer paul
anderson prooved that truly engaging use anbd choreography ofthe action in a film cant override problems with plot
and produce something entertaining
.
however
, he fails tothe repeat that inaddition thsi film
. yhe combat scenes
, particularly the big one at tyhe end
, is incredibly unimaginatve
. fighting annd combat scenes are suposed tothe bring baout thrills in thsi tipe ofthe movie
, a point whcih even an otherwise unimpressive film like starship troopers seemed to relize
. bu instade ofthe reacing forthe something truely interesting to end tghe film wiht
, it goes fo the old
, shoot
- em uv
, one guy vs
. an army type of cinema thgat i
thought died with tghe miliary action films of yhe 80s
. if the film whent with some ofthe tghe idesa it opened up withthe tje introduction more seriously
, it coudl ahve beeen a rather engaging scinece fiction film
. howver
, it utterly failed tothe go in any newyorker directions affter taht
, makeing thte film a big dissappointment
.