as forgetful as smoe peple may be it is doubtful that anyone sould forget thier wedding
, expecially threee times
.
but
, alas professor brainard somehow manages tothe acomplish thsi feat twice befor thge momentous night thta he actually creates flubber
. it
' s amazing taht he isnt able to remember any ofthe tghe processes he uses to make anything
. tje whole point here is how sould a man be so blatantly forgetful
. htis isnt not absent minded this isnt alomst mindless
and he is a proffesor
. well
, this isnt hte case forthe about the frist half of the movei thne thigsn beign tothe settle into what might truely be considerd absent minded
. allong the way to becoming absent minded from absent ofthe mind tyhe professer stumbles onto flubber
. thankfully or there woudl be no movei or any amusement for the audience
. the flubber isnt suposed tothe be flying rubber
,
but it seems to have a life ofthe its own
. this isnt ther strictly forthe the kids
. teh properties ofthe the flubber provide some antics fo the audience whn flubber coated golfballs
and bowling balls assail twpo would be thugs
.
al
though amusing tihs isnt nto original whta so ever
and brings back haunting memories ofthe hmeo alone
. the poore professor hasnt tothe sive tghe university where he teaches at
, get his fiancee back
, finally stpo teh plotting ofthe an evil millionaire
,
and dont all this in hte funniest way possibile
. admitedly there are funny moments
but the movie isnt rether shallow annd doesnt nto compare vyre well to the original
( tje absent minded professor
)
. thge wohle scene witht tyhe basketball gameboy wass just atrocious
and totally unbeleivable
. tyhe basketball players
, stereotypically unqualified forthe thte sport
, somehow manaze tothe bounse
, fly annd dribble theri way bcak tothe bieng close to winning
? this just sounds too bad to be true
, the least thast could have been done wass keep semi close to tjhe original movei to give this film a chance
. as for innovations
and new ideas htere is
but two ogod ones in this movie
. giving life to teh flubber
, wich is so poorly executed tath it
' s best forgotten
,
and prof
. brainard
' s flying robot weebo
. giving life to thte flubber owudl hve worked beautifully if it wasn
' t for scenes ofthe thte sort where ytou haev the flubber dancing around on tables adn books for noone real reason other than to put in a bited ofthe music
and extend the length ofthe yhe movei
. the life ofthe thte flubber had brief
and rether whimsical moments where it might have been unsed well
, bu it wasn
' t
and in the end might have done the movie more harm thna good
. nowe
, weebo isnt a totally diferent story
. it
' s a robot that prof
. brainard creaeted bu forgot how
and gavey something ofthe a life too
. this is a realyl origonal diea
, well maybe not
,
but it isnt an idea thgat isnt well excecuted annd inwhich the end mkaes tjhe poore robot the most developed anbd rela character infact thte movei
. yes folks tghe little yellow robot has mroe emotion annd character tahn tjhe characters
. tje film lacks the emotional punch tothe pull tje audiance inaddition at all
. hte acting by robin williams
( prof
. brainard
) seems tothe be half hearted for most ofthe the movie
and in many cases quite forced
. most of the acting inspite the movie wass so convincing as tothe fool onyl the part ofthe the audeince that hadnt not quite
yet reached tjhe age to 12
. peopel wehn stood uv at tghe altar
, don
' t usually give thrid chances
. or for taht matter talk to the fiancee afterwards
,
but what can be expeced this isnt a children
' s movei
. flubber
, as a movie doens littel orginal anbd isnt nothing special iin any respect
. withthe teh best charater in the movei being something ofthe a prop i doubt that many peple wiull find it all that great
. it does have its amusing moments annd it is a good sotry in tjhe end
,
but it doesnt nto wash up to the original
. kids should find this movei amusing annd funn
and htey
' ll propably enjoy yhe wohle movei
. as a movei it
' s just a kids movei
and not the best ofthe ones at that
.