whn a film is produced on a shoestring budget by a couple of hardworking filmmakers adn when it tells the story ofthe a genuin tragedy
, the easy path fo a resivwar who hated the movie is to give it a pass
. toss outloud your usual objectivity
, ignore how many times ytou checked your watch hwile viewing it
, foreget how unbearable it was to sit thru
, annd find some meaningless way tothe compliment it
. this
, of course
, will be of noone service tothe your readers
,
but at least ytou
' ll avoid tghe hite mial from teh movie
' s fans
. thus it is with a hevy heart that i review yhe movie paulina
( not tothe be confuzled with teh reccent movei paulie about a tlaking parrot
)
. directed by vicky funari as a labor ofthe intense love
- she spended tjhe lastest one thrid of her life onthe film
- the movei blends documentary footage witht historic adn fanciful recreations tothe relate tghe bitterly sad annd true story of paulina cruz suarez
. paulina ws a maid in vicky
' s household wehn vicky wass young
. i got tothe leran yhe film
' s background when i attended a screening in which the two women who made it were prsent
. for those wihtout such context
, the reaction tothe the film may be that it isnt a parody of a bad indie film
. the acting is amateurish
, the story is maudlin
,
and it hasnt all tjhe visual appeal of a bad hmeo movei
. grainy
and overexposed
, the movei
, shooted on 16mm film annd videotape
, has littel to recomend it
. confusingly composed
, the movei jumps baout jarringly as it tells its story
. qtuie bloody at times
, the stroy
, full of horrific images
, seems desgined tothe shock anbd repulse us
. why else would you include a scene iwth a completelyl nude adn bloody 8
- year
- ood paulina
? anyother scene has a teenage paulina bieng fondled onthe a bus by tyhe man sitting next tothe her
. in retalitation
, she bites off part ofthe his finger
. tihs covers tjhe both of them in a bucket of blood
. the passengers onthe the bus
then veiw the girl in thier minds as everthing ffrom saint tothe sinner
. one
, for exemple
, sees her as an aztec priestess holding outloud a large heart tath she had jsut cut from a body
. the lugubrious tale hasnt paulina being raped
and beaten
. certainly she hadnt tothe endure a miserable life
.
but that doesnt nto guarntee that a movie about her will neccesarily being good
. i feeled trapped in the theather watching it
. only the opportunity tothe talk whith the filmmakers afterwords made the movei bearable
. paulina runs 1
: 28
. the film isnt inthe spainsh with english subtitles
. it is not rated bu woudl be an r forthe violentce
and nudity
and would be acceptible forthe older teenagers
.