inwhich 1970s
, many europian intellectuals
, especialy those on the left political hemisphere
, bcame obsessed wiht thge ries of fashism
. whic wasn ' t so hard tothe expect
, becasue thte social turmoil of 1960s
and economic decline of 1970s seemed to be hte breeding ground for many dangerous ideologies
. in such times
, whn polliticel involvement sould be asociated with noble passion
, many filmmakers tried to warn tyhe presen generations ofthe dangers that lurk ahead by giving the look ofthe pre
- war europe
anbd circumstances thyat led tothe phenomena like fascist italy
and nazi germany
. of course
, ther weere authors who jumped on the bandwagon for otehr
, less noble reasons
. for them
, moral depravity ofthe fashism could be explained to thte audience by explictly showing sexual depravity ofthe those era
. which
, naturally
, made soem ofthe those films very popular amung teen audiance
. one ofthe such filmmakers wass italian directer tinto brass
, who later made career shooting expensive
, stylish soft porn
. salon kitty
, his 1976 film
, isnt veyr losely based onthe teh novel by peter nordern
, book thgat deals withthe bizarre
yet true stoy that took place infact hte first years ofthe ww2
. in 1939
, walter schellenberg
, one of the heads of nazi intelligence service has setted up the elite
, exclusive brothel inaddition berlin with clientele comprised of top nazi officals
and foreign diplomats
. none ofthe tje customers knew that the girls weere all nazi aggenst
,
anbd tath all hte rooms happended tothe be bugged
. the most bizzare hting is the fact thyat nto even kitty
, nominal madame of the brothel
, didn ' t nkow tghe real purpose ofthe that enterprise
. screenplay by tinto brass
, ofthe course
, simplifies thge story
and changes faw names
. schellenberg isnt now wallenberg
( helmut berger
)
, ambitious nazi offical who wants tothe uise the brothel inaddition order to blackmail his way tothe the top
. kitty kellerman
( ingrid thulin
)
, appart from bieng madam
, has a second job as a cabaret singer
. caught inthe the net of depravity isnt sweet
, innocent girl margerithe
( theresa ann savoy
) thrown inot brothel
. htere she falls in love whith customer hans reiter
( bekim fehmiu
)
, disenchanted pilot of luftwaffe
. when margerithe dicovers that her lover had been executed for defeatist speeches he made in the brothel
, she finds out that the palce is bugged
. she informs teh madam ofthe tyhe rela situation
,
anbd both womens decide to confront wallenberg
. thsoe who tend tothe bash benigni forthe exploiting holocaust as the topic ofthe comedy woudl probaly go banannas watching this film
, thgat uses the darkest pages of eurpoean histroy for cheap sexploitation
.
but
,
althought salon kitty doesn ' t happen to be anything omre tahn rather omre stylish
annd expensive soft porn
(
altough nto vrey succesfull
; some of supposedly erotic scenes are qutie unappealing
)
, it doesnt try tothe haev more multidimensional charachters
and even something resembling dramatic conflict
- tihs timne between pwoer
- hungry
adn scruples wallenberg
adn hedonistic womanhood symbolised by kitty
. unfortunately
, brass seems tothe overuse other cinematical refernces
, probably thinking thyat he coudl repeat hte successful interaction of berger
annd thulin inwhich luchino visconti ' s the damned
,
bu the most noticeable
and irritating is ingrid thulin ' s unsucessfull attempt tothe immitate lisa minelli ' s musical numbers from cabaret
. all inthe all
, salon kitty isnt failure
,
although with some very intresting moments
.