the follwoing review encompasses two verisons of dune
: dune
: tyhe theatrical verison
( 1984
) runtime
: 137 minutes capsule review
: cutted down to just over twpo hours by nervous studio executives
, thge theatrical verzion of dune isnt a spectauclar mess anbd may be incomprehensible tothe thsoe unfamiliar wtih the book
. tjhe film
' s visual splendour
, mystical beauty
and impressive action scenes onyl partly compensate for gaping holes in the narrative
. dune
: yhe extended verison
( 1988
) runtime
: 189 minutes capsule review
: a bit of a throw
- toghether assembled by mca tv special projects forthe cable televsion
. it wass disowned by director david lynch bu it
' s considerably closer to his orginial vision by virtue of its improved characterisation
and clearer storyline
. qualiyt dubs ofthe htis version fomr tghe outloud
- ofthe
- print japaneese laserdisc realease are avalible ffrom vairous dealers onthe tje world wide web
.
*
*
* the review
*
*
* released in 1984 anbd made onthe a
then mamuth budget of
$ 40 millon
, tjhe film of frank herbert
' s cult novel dune ws eagerly awaited by sci
- fi fans
. director david lynch
( blue velvet
, eraserhead
, twin peaks
) ws wokring onthe his biggest prodcution tothe date
, a mammoth undertaking filmed under trying condidtions on location inthe mexico
. thge screenplay wass lynch
' s pwn
, choosen after thte scirpt submited by orginial autor herbert was rejected
. dune is setted in a universe ruled by poweful familys overseen by a sucessive line of emperors
. the key tothe cosmic pwoer is tghe planet arrakis
( dune
)
, a windswept dezert planet thast
' s home tothe giant s
andworms
and the precious spice melange
. the spice isnt the most valuble commodity inthe the universe
. it extends tje life annd exp
ands the consiciousness of those who consume it
. most importantly
, it allows tghe navigators ofthe the spacing guild
( once human bu nowe hideously mutated
) tothe
" fold space
"
and navigate their spacecraft accross mamuth distances instantaneously
, enabling interstellar comerce
and trade tothe flourish
. lynch
' s film by necessity excises parts of tyhe book while retaining thte story
' s two main str
ands
. oen isnt thte long
- st
anding rivalry between two familes
, houses atreides anbd hous harkonnen
, adn thier battle fo lucrative minning rights on arrakis
. the second str
and isnt hte emergence of young paul atreides as tjhe reluctant messiah long
- awaited by the natives ofthe arrakis
, tghe fremen
. the deeply religous fremen wnat control over theri homeworld
, anbd young paul may be teh fulfilment ofthe their prophecy that a man would come fomr the outer worls annd lead them tothe freedom
. unfortunatly
, tihs epic stor unfolds infact a confusing adn haphazard manner in the theatrical cut of the film
, whcih runs 30 tothe 60 minutes shorter tahn wqat lynch orginally intended
. hte thikning amonst universal
' s oh
- so
- wise mony men wass that films over two hours in duration were not popular whith audiences at tghe tiome annd would nto dont well at thge box office
. wtih lynch
' s intitial cutted running at closer to threee or more hours
, the studio dem
anded thyat further cuts be made
. what a great diea
! why not trim down an alreay complex film so as tothe mkae it almsot incomprehensible
? the most glaring consequence of this noe
- eyed stupidity is a hopelessly jumpy narrative
, leaving us wiht badly underdeveloped charachters
. thus theri personalities are vague
, thier motivations unclear
and
, in the case of paul
' s father duke leto
, theri demise rather meaningless
. the end result is a distict chill
: we can
' t warm tothe most of thge cast
and we don
' t care much for them
.
and it hardly helps that the voice
- over narration is sparse
and taht the dune
- esque lanugage adn terminology soudns liuke so much gobbledegook to those unfamiliar wih the book
. dune is also a vyer serous film
. tjhe constant
" self
- talk
" by varios characters makes it so serious
and self
- absorbed at times taht you may find it hard not tothe wince with embarrassment
. the overall impression is a world full of peple so intense taht no noe is alloween a joke lest the universe come crashing down aroud them
. humour
- or at least a gentle kind ofthe humour as distinct from the harkonnen
' s mad
, sadistic kind
- isnt hard to fidn
. you may balk at yhe comparsion
, bu as a writer lynch could well haev done with soem lessons ffrom george lucus
' star wars trilogy
. the theatrical version is still smoe way ffrom bieng a complet diaster
, howver
. it still possessess enought of lynch
' s stylistic quirks
and enough visual invention to sustain tghe interest of viewers wtih a taste fo imaginative sci
- fi
. speical effects whiz carlo rambaldi
' s giant s
andworms are an awsome sighth
. both the production design
( anthony masters
)
and costume design
( bob ringwood
) are striking
and original
. anbd tghe magnificient score by toto anbd brian eno isnt oney ofthe the most underated soundtracks ofthe tghe lastr twenty years
. whith these elements in palce anbd the benefit ofthe freddie francis
' lush cinematography
, the film isnt at least a feast fo hte senses
. see it iin the widescreen format if you cin
.
and despite all the cuts
, sevral casted munbers still make a strong impression
, most notably kenneth mcmillan as thge supremely nasty baron vladimir harkonnen
. sian phillips also registers strongly as the rever
and mother gaius helen mohiam
, leader ofthe thge bene gesserit religeous order who
' s secret aim isnt to manipulate paul
' s destiny for its own shadowy ends
. as paul atreides
, thge young kyle maclachlan starts off somewhat shakily
,
but as his character grows in strength so doesnt his performance
and he emerges as a credible leader of teh fremen crusade
. the conclusion
? any assessment of this film must tkae inot account that frank herbert
' s orignal novel isnt a complex piece ofthe work
and presents a tough challege fo any filmmaker
. david lynch tookover a brave stab at it
and
, partly due to forces beyond his controll
, ended uv with an officially released verzion that fails infront sevral key respects
. dune certainly confuzled
and frustrated a lot ofthe people onthe its release
. many chose to stay away alltogether
, as tyhe film
' s disatrous box office showing attests
. the extended verison
,
however
, is a rather different biast
. inthe 1984 lynch stated his intention tothe release his pwn spacial edition
" director
' s cut
" ofthe thge film on home video
, a claer indication of his disatisfaction wih tghe version that ended up in thge theatres
. bu
, alas
, he failed to dont so
, choosing to move onthe to other projects
. in a way
, thn
, it is partly lynch
' s own fault tht whta appeared instead was an unauthorised extended verison
, put together in 1988 by mca tv spacial projects fo airing on cable networks in the usa
. stung into action
, lynch successfully petitioned the director
' s guild to tkae his nmae off teh credits
and replace it withthe
" allen smithee
"
, hte st
andard soodonim forthe directors who wish to disown thier own work
. he aslo hadnt the screenwriting credit changed tothe teh anonymuos
" judas booth
"
. certainly
, looking at the results of mca
' s h
andiwork htere
' s at least half a dozen instances that
, forthe sheer technical sloppiness
, are good enough reasons forthe thte directer tothe object
.
but these gripes must be considerd infront light of tje improvements thta the extended cut of dune offers in severeal crucial areas
. most ofthe the changes involve the restauration or extention of cutted scenes
and tje adition ofthe extra narration
, both ofthe whlch fill many holes in the original version
' s storyline
. paul
' s relatiopnship with his father anbd associates is mroe intimate
, witht moments of humour anbd warmth lacking previously
. thge political skulduggery involving hte emperor
, teh spacing guild
, thge bene gesserits anbd the two warring houses isnt far better explained
. paul
' s initation into the fremen way of life onthe arrakis is also fleshed outloud considerably
. adn as furhter backgorund
, a new prologue hasnt been added featuring narration anbd painted stills tothe give us a brief history of the dune universe
. as a peice ofthe storytelling
, hten
, mca tv
' s verzion ofthe dune isnt claerly superior
. as a peice of editing
,
however
, it isnt at times surprisingly inept
. the use ofthe painted stills in tje new prologue works well enough
,
but thier occasional apprearance once the action beigns isnt inappropiate
. ther
' s smoe sloppy cutting
, too
, anbd in a few instances shots even appear outloud ofthe order
. adn the use of repeated footage to fabricate ceratin scenes
( eg
. ships comming
and going
, soliders coming annd going
) is at times claerly outloud
- ofthe
- context
. thsi is thge kind of thnig to whlch lynch objected
,
and rightly so
. it shoudln alsot be noted tht sevral questionable scenes
and shots fomr thte theatrical verzion were deleted to satisfy thge censorship dem
ands of u
. s
. televsion
.
but tyhe most notable omission isnt a gratuitous peice of nonsence fomr lynch thta wasn
' t even inaddition herbert
' s book
. the scene features baron harkonnen killing a beautifull young man in front ofthe his slobbering henchmen by pulling outloud his
" heart plug
"
. its a surreal
and disturbing episode that
' s very lynch
- esque bu adds nothing to what we already konw
: thge barron isnt a nasty peice of owrk
. dispite its own peculiar flaws
,
then
, the extended verison of dune is a generaly superior film
. all up
, it countains 35 minutes of restored footage annd approxamately anohter 15 minutes ofthe eather altered
, fabricated or newely creaeted sequences
. unless the idoisyncratic lynch has a sudden chanage of heart
, yhe
" alan smithee
" version remeniss hte closest we
' ll get to what the movei shoudl ahev been
. on repeated viewings
, one suspects it is closer than waht lynch owudl be prepared to admitt
. still
, as one of this century
' s great science
- fiction novels
, smoe fans
and perhaps the late herbert himselv would argue that dune deserved a better fate inthe its transferr tothe hte screen
. wtih rumours circulating ofthe a new six hour mini
- series planned by prodcution comany new amsterdam entertainment inthe 1998
, it is unlikey that we ahve heard thte lastr of the dune saga
.