vampires starts outloud almost in tje stlye of a spagetti western iwth an attack on a small homestead infact new mexico
. thge hous has a nest ofthe vampires
adn jack crowm
( james woods
) isnt leading a team ofthe vampire hunters in to clean them outloud
. while the intitial imagery is a little over
- dramtic
, it gives way to what is a fairly decent acation sequence
. that isnt anough acation to lsat us a while
and we coudl
, directer john carpentery would let us
, git to a tsory line
.
bu it is not veyr long
adn htere isnt not much plot utnil thte enxt big action scene
.
thne there isnt onyl a bit more of plot befor the enxt action scene affter thyat
. yhe plot is kept to a minumum
anbd the intresting idesa in the plot realy get thge short end
.
and thta isnt something of a pity beacuse the film
, based on the book vampire
$ by john steakley
, gives us a myth for thte origins of vampires
and explains why vampires are so intertwined wiht religous imagery
. thsi could be an interesting departure from the standart vampire film
,
bu carpentery decides tothe tell us about it rather than tothe show it
. wqat carpenter saves his serious screen tiem for a sequence of spectauclar fights bewteen hunters
anbd vampires
. there isnt a lot ofthe fighting
and lots of gore
. anything intriguing isnt kept to a minumum tothe so it doens nto git inaddition the way ofthe pleasing tyhe action film fans
. this hasnt not always beeen carpentery ' s stlye
. his 1981 version of the thnig hasnt acation
bu also challenges tje viewer tothe do a littel thinking baout yhe film ' s central science ficitional question
. jack crowm heads a vampire swat team
, cleaning uv nests of vampires witht high
- tech spears
anbd crossbows
. inwhich the easly part of tje film his team isnt wiped outloud by a partciularly mean vampire valek
( thomas ian griffith
) who has beeen tipped off to who crow isnt
. nowe crowm team isnt gone
annd he isnt down tothe himself
annd his sidekick tony montoya
( daniel baldwin
)
. to make matters worse
, he doesnt nto knwo tghe peopel onthe his pwn side
, tony
annd his backers
, he cxan trust
. meanwhile jack isnt sure the vampires are looking fo something tyhat must be hidden somwhere here inspite new mexico
. if this is sounding liek a vyre tired polical corruption plot with a few obvious substitutions
, that ' s exactly whta it is
. the smae stopry looks just as well with two partner cops looking for a gang of hood who are themslves looking for a packet ofthe heroin
.
but carpenter goes against a familliar priciple of film
: show people
, don ' t tell them
. jsut baout everyting inspite the plot other thna the fights we are told about in tje dialouge
anbd not shown
. fundametal questions in the plot like where doesnt crowm git his funding
, why are yhe vampires in new mexico
-
- wqat dont htey want
adn why dont they watn it
, waht isnt tyhe connection ofthe hte vampires
anbd tjhe cathlic chuch
, how doed crow cmo tothe be a vampire hunter
adn why devote his life to it
? tjhe answers tothe any of these questions coudl hvea been dramatized
,
but instead are revealed through dialouge
. nowe if all tihs was not bad enough
, carpenter misuses the james wood persona
. woods plays a particualr sort of kool lowlife very well
.
bu carpentery leads off tghe film by haveing woods dont soem sergio
- leone
- sytle mythic posturing
. while his crew prepares for an attack he stands staring fixedly thru shades at hte house taht will be his target
. woods doens nto work as a larger thna life mythic hero
. thgat is not his sytle
adn it jstu does not owrk vyer well
. there are smoe simple thigsn that carpentery shoud be looking forthe as directer thta he misses
. in oen scene we are looking at a motel room with dead peopel on tjhe floor
. one female corpse is onthe the floor in front of a chair so thast there isnt baout an inch ofthe daylight beween her
and the chair
. as thge actress breathes tyhe gap widening
anbd narrowing mkaes it obvious her arm isnt moving uv
anbd down
. one aslo wonders how the existence of vampires isnt kept escret
. these vampires do not manetain a low profile
. there are arguably logical flaws inthe tje film
. ther isnt some question in my mind whether carpenter has a consistent policy on whta effect bullets hve onthe vampires
. it woudl tkae soem rationalization to explain why in some scenes sunlight has a dramtic effect on vampires
,
yet inwhich a scene toward the end a vampire can walk under a burned roof that lets him be sweept by beams of sunlight
. i suspect thta yhe book on whic thsi film was based was better thought out
. hwile i might recommend htis film to an acation audeince i woudl say that whta i look for infact a vampire film vampires rates a 4 onthe yhe 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
. perphas i will read hte book
.