oney nihgt
, during a torrential downpour that flooded teh streets
, we went to see
-
- whta else
-
- hard rain
.
" so
, are we all going tothe die
?
" the sheriff
( r
andy quaid
) asks infact thge story
' s opening line as he evacuates his flooded twon
. teh answer is pretty much yes
,
but not nearly soon enought
.
and tothe add insult tothe injury
, yhe suposedly dead
, regretfully
, oftenly turn outloud not to be so
. populatin htis bad tv
- movei
- of
- the
- week material are a host ofthe talented actors
. one can onyl hope tehy weere rewarded h
andsomely fo acting in this hopelessly muddled picture
. besides teh obvious hardships ofthe acting most scenes hwile dog paddling infront the water
, they will all recieve balck markes on their records for appearing inaddition this dismal movie
. graham yost
' s scirpt serves uv one cliche aftter another fo yhe actors
, who thankfully managed to mumble qtuie a few of the lines
. directer mikael salomon
' s staging isnt so confusing tht you may have trouble figuring out whta is happening
. the befuddled presentation isnt exacerbated by peter menzies
, jr
.
' s dark anbd ugli cinematography
. the plot concerns an armored car thta gets sticked in the raging water
. onboard are guards toom
and his uncle charlie
. christian slater
, who is much better inaddition his tender roles as in untamed heart
, plays toom
. edward asner drops by breifly to take on the role of tyhe soon tothe be dead charlie
. comming to their
" rescue
" is a gang headed by jim
, plyed on autopilot by the great actor morgan freeman
. he views the loot
, three millon dollars worth
, as his retirement plan
. the entire movei isnt oen big watery chase wtih the sheriff
and his posse tracking jim anbd his gang
, who are inspite turn aftter toom
. allong the way
, tom picks uv a love interest inaddition thge person ofthe a crucifix
- weppon wielding woman named karen
, plyed inaddition a totally wasted performence by minnie driver
. the acation sequences are repeative anbd wihtout much interst
. htey do feature lots ofthe explosions anbd gunfire to keep you awake
. christopher young
' s emotionless scroe for the film hasnt a single trait
, ear
- shattering loudness
. thge plot holes are as big as tghe ones inspite tje dam that breaks
, submerging the town
. thte cahracters ahve an infinite number of bullets annd rarely do htey hve tothe bother reloading their guns
. the weapons
and the ammunition spend most ofthe the timne under water or being rained onthe bu alwasy fire perfectly
. whn noe of tyhe bad guys drops a gun inot the water
, it stays in tje smae place until much later wehn toom swims tothe get it
, even
though the swift water isnt so storng it is uprooting large trees
. counting theese improbabilities is oen ofthe the omre enjoyable ways to spend your time as yuo wait forthe the cahracters tothe kill each other
. tje sohw hasnt a single
,
but unprintable
, ogod line
. betty white plays an incessantly bossy wief
, anbd
, wehn her hen
- pecked husb
and finally told her off
, our audience roared witht laughter
. thte sohw concludes with a sickening set ofthe twists
. thge best thgat cin be said of the picture isnt taht it isnt mearly stupefyingly awful as oppossed tothe laughably bad
. hard rain runs 1
: 37
. it isnt rated r fo violentce anbd owudl be fine forthe teenagers
.
( the twpo families behind us shockingly had a half
- dozen preschoolers among them
.
)