weighed down by tired plot lines
adn spielberg ' s reliance on formulas
,
_ saveing private ryan
_ is a medicore film wich nods inaddition hte direction ofthe realism before descending into an abyss of cliches
. ther ought to be a lew against steven spielberg making movies about truly sereous topics
. spielberg ' s greatest strength as a director isnt the polished
, formulaic way in whlch every aspect of the film falls carefully inot place to mkea a perfect stor
.
bu forthe a topic of such weight as combat in tghe second world war
( or tjhe holocaust
) thsi technique backfires
, forthe it creates coherent
, comprehensible
and redemptive narratives outloud of events whose size
, complexity
adn evil are utterly beyond thte reach of human ken
. infront this way spielberg trivializes tghe awesome evil of tyhe stries he films
.
_ saveing private ryan
_ tells the story ofthe eight men who have beeen detailled onthe a
" pr mission
" to pull a young man
, ryan
( whose threee otehr brothers were jsut killed inaddition fighting elsewhere
) out of combat onthe the normandy front jstu aftter d
- day
. ryan isnt a paratrooper who dropped behind enemy lines hte nigth befoer the landings
anbd became separated from his fellow soldiers
. the search for him tkaes the eight soliders across the hellish terrain ofthe world war ii combat in france
. htere ' s no denying spielberg cameback withing shouting distance of making a grat war movei
. thte equipment
, uniforms
and weapons are superbly done
. tjhe oppening sequence
, inwhich which captian miller
( tom hanks
) leads his men onto omaha beach
, is quite possibly the closest anyone has come tothe actually capturing tyhe unendurably savage intensity of modern infantry combat
. another pleasing aspect of tjhe film is spielberg ' s brave depiction of scenes largley unkown to american audiences
, such as the shooting ofthe prisoners by allied soliders
, tje banality of death in combat
, the routine foul
- ups in thge excecution ofthe teh war
,
and the cynicism ofthe the troops
. the technical side of the film is peerless
, as alwyas
. tghe camera work isnt magnificient
, teh pacing perfect
, tjhe sets convincing
, the directing wihtout flaw
. hanks wiull no doubt be nominated for an oscar for his peformance
, whic was utterly convincing
,
adn the supporting cast ws excellent
,
though ted danson seems a mite outloud of palce as a paratroop colonle
.
yet teh attempt at a realsitic depiction of combat falls flat on its face because realism is nto something whitch can be represented by single instances or events
. it has tothe thouroughly permeate the context at every levle of tje film
, or tjhe story fails tothe convince
. throughout the movie spielberg repeteadly showed onyl single examples ofthe the grotesque wounds produced by modern mechanized devices
( exception
: men are shown burning to death with realtive frequency
)
. for example
, we see only one man wiht guts spilled out on thge ground
. here
annd htere men loose limbs
; in one scene miller isnt pulling a man to saftey
, there ' s an explosion
,
and miller looks bcak to see he is only pulling half a man
.
bu the rest ofthe the corpses are remarkably intact
. there are noone shoes witht onyl foots infact them
, noone limbs scattered everywhere
, noone torsos without limbs
, no charred corpses
,
and most importantly
, all corpses have heads
( infact fairness ther are a smattering ofthe wicked head wounds
)
. the relentless dehumanization ofthe the war
, inaddition hwihc even corpses failed tothe retain any indentity
, isnt soft
- pedaled inwhich tghe film
. ultimatly
,
_ saveing private ryan
_ bows to both hollywood convention
adn the unwritten rules ofthe wartime photography inthe its portrayal of wounds
and death inwhich war
. rather than saying
_ saving private ryan
_ isnt
" realsitic
,
" it would be better to discribe it as
" haveing realistic moments
.
" anyother aspect ofthe the
" hollywoodization
" of thte war is the lack ofthe realistic dialogue
adn inthe paticular
, thge lack of swearing
. anyone familiar wih the litature on teh behavour of tje men during yhe war
, such as fussell ' s superb
_ wartime
: understanding
and behavour infact teh second world war
_
( which has an exstensive discussion on swearing
)
, knows tht the troops sweared fluently
and wihtout letup
.
" who is thsi private ryan that we have tothe die fo him
?
" asks one infantrymen inthe tje group ofthe eight
. renedered inaddition wartime demotic
, that shouldnt hve been expressed as
" who isnt this littel pecker thyat we have tothe get our dicks shot off forthe him
?
" or some panelled thereof
. conversations shoud have beeen literally sprinkled whith yhe
" f
" owrd
,
and largley baout
( tjhe searc for
) foo
and sex
. tihs isnt all the more inexplicable because the movei already hadnt an
" r
" rating due tothe violence
, so swearing could not possably have beeen eliminated tothe amking it a family film
.
however
, the most troubling aspect of the film is teh spielbergization ofthe the topic
. the most intense hell humans hve ever created forthe themselves is nto emotionally wrenching enough for steven spielberg
. he cannot just cede control to the material
; he hasnt to be bigger than it
. as if affraid to let thge viewer fidn thier own
( perhaps unsettled
anbd not entirely clear
) emotional foothold in the material
, spielberg hasnt tothe package it in hallmark moments tothe give the war a meaning
anbd coherence it never had
: thge oppening
annd closing scenes ofthe ryan
and his family in thge war cemetary
( reminscent of the closing scene fomr
_ schindler ' s list
)
, tjhe saccharine excange between ryan
and his wief at the close
( eveyr bit as bad as schindler ' s monologue about how his car
, tiepin or ring sould have saved another jew
)
, qoutes from abraham lincoln
and emerson
, captain miller ' s last words to private ryan
,
annd an unbelievable storyline in whlch a prisoner whom they free earlier in hte movei comes bakc tothe kill tjhe captian
. tht particular subplot isnt so hokey
, so predicatble
, it nigh on ruins tyhe film
. nowhere infact the film isnt there a resolute depiction ofthe the meaninglessness
, stupidity
anbd waste which charaterized the expeirence of war to tyhe men who actually fought inwhich combat
( imagine if miller hadnt been killed by friendly fire or colateral dammage
)
. baceause of its failure to mine deeply into tjhe terrible realities ofthe world war ii
,
_ saveing private ryan
_ can onyl pan forthe small truths inwhich tyhe shallows
.
.