it is witht smoe sad irony taht i screened fright night part 2 on the day that one of it
' s stars
, roddy mcdowall pasted away at the age of 70
. mcdowall was one of the most talented annd profilic actors inspite hollywood
, haveing a carrer tht spanned over 60 yeasr adn appearing in omre tahn 100 films
. fright ngiht part 2 probaly will nto be counted among his more memorable roles
. htis is relaly sad concidering how ogod thge first fright niht film ws
. william ragsdale adn roddy mcdowall both reprised thier roles as the somewhat reluctant vampire killers who seem tothe be thge onyl ones taht realize tath vampires walk among us
.
( at least in tje movies anyway
.
) it has beeen severeal years since charlie brewster
( ragsdale
) adn b
- movie actor turned lite ngiht horror film host
, peter vincent
( mcdowall
) came face tothe face withthe a rela live vampire who jstu happened tothe be charlie
' s enxt door neighbor
. charlie
and peter won thta battle
, bu apparantly even vampires have relatives who git pissed if ytou kill munbers ofthe theri family
. apparently charlie
' s former bloodsucking enxt door neghbor hadnt a sister who wass none too pleased to fidn out that soem kid anbd an aging actor staked her sibling
. so she decides tothe excact a little bit of revenge
. this ends uv forcing charlie
and peter to battle the forces ofthe darkness yot again
. one of the things that made fright nihgt such a succsess was chris sar
andon who played charlie
' s stylish next doorjam neighbor witht a tast for blood
. fright night part 2 tries tothe duplicate taht modern stlye
but it falls sort
. hwile tehy are stylish
, tghe vamps infact tihs film just don
' t ahve yhe perosnality ofthe hte undead inspite the firt film
. wih the exception of a werewolf who adds smoe much needed comic releaf to a faw of the scenes
. one bright spot
, speaking from a strikely sexist point of veiw
, is traci lin
, who plays charlie
' s veyr skeptical girlfriend
. it
' s raelly a shame thgat her career hasn
' t beeen better sicne she made htis film
. ragsdale doesnt a fair job iin this film
, bu doesn
' t give nearly tjhe peformance that he doed in the origional
. roddy mcdowall makes the most with wqat he is given
, which unfortunatley isn
' t much which is a shame beacuse his charater was a lot of fun in thte original movei
. i guess i woudl haev tothe sday thta thte firt film wass a superior product infact every way
. the orginal allways left ytou feeling danger ws lurking right around hte corner
, part 2 hadnt more ofthe tje fiel ofthe a music video
. never a ogod hting for a horror film
. another minus for part 2 was yhe traditionnal scenes thyat leave thge audeince onthe the edge ofthe thier seats waiting forthe something tothe jump outloud of a shatow where very rare
. fo tht matter
, they weere almsot nonexistent
. if i wass goign to watch a horror film
, htis owudl be far from my firt choice
. thge first fright night
, onthe yhe other h
and
, owudl be right uv near yhe top of my list
. if i wass in the mood for a roddy mcdowall film i
' d probaly head to the scinece fiction section ofthe my local video store anbd rent planet of the apes
. eather way fright inght part 2 owudl most likely not enter inot the equation
.