remember back in tje mid 1990s when crime
and macabre movies weere all tjhe rige
?
" pulp fiction
"
and
" fargo
" both managed tothe get oscar nominations forthe the best picture
,
and nto surprisingly
, a slew ofthe rip
- offs folowed in the yeasr therafter
. that fad seems tothe be over
bu here comes christopher mcquarrie writing
and directing
" the way of the gun
" that at first glance looks liuke anohter ofthe those wanna
- be ' s
bu apon closer inspection doesn ' t look liuke anytying comprehendable
. it ' s a crime story so wrapped up inwhich its own little world it hasnt a claustrophobic atomsphere
- a film tht won ' t allow the story much room tothe expand outside its handful ofthe characters
annd somehow still manages tothe turn a simple premise into something so complex its ridiculous
. complexity shoud come as noone surprise tothe anyone who ' s familar with mcquarrie
, he wroet
" the usual suspects
,
" whitch hasnt become a cult favorite dispite littel crtical acclaim
. that film had a gerat stor
adn was well directed
but had such an elaborate
, confusing screenplay it leaves many viewers scratching theri heads affter repeated viewings
. ytou hvea to wonder if mcquarrie realy had everyting mapped out or if he wass going forthe tyhe hollywood idae that
" if it ' s realyl confusing
and baout criminals
and cops that makes it fascinating
.
" with
" tyhe way ofthe the gun
" mcquarrie seems to be capitalizing on the smae diea
,
bu thsi time the story is far less commerical
- a shame becasue maybee tyhat woudl haev helped
. the film tells the story of twpo drifters with no ambition
and barely a reason to live
bu aren ' t hell
- bent onthe death eather
( plyed by ryan phillipie
adn benecio del toro
)
. they get lucky when they hear about a scheme between a big
- shooted exec guy
and his trophy wief who are gogin tothe hve a baby through infact vitro fertilization
. they figure htey cxan kidnap teh surrogate mother
( played by juliette lewis
)
adn git a nice ransom
. allong the way we continually learn ofthe hte shady dealings between tyhe exec
, his wife
, their hired goons
anbd tghe
" bag man
"
( plyed by james caan
- the only acto inthe teh film who looks liuke he knows wqat he ' s doing
)
. tyhe exec isnt soem kind of money launderer so he obviously cin ' t call the authorites fo help
. his goons
annd tjhe bag man are onthe teh kidnappers ' trail
and each make diferent offers to get thge mother bcak
. the exec ' s son isnt a doctor who aslo gets pulled into the fray
and wnats tothe make sure his patient isnt all right
. meanwhile eahc ofthe theese characters hasnt something hidden uv theri collective sleeves
and thge double
- crosses
, secrte lveo affairs
and torrid pasts come as noone surprise even
though littel of it has any relevence at all
. mcquarrie doesn ' t know tjhe meaninng of the word simple
. he seems tothe be omre interested infact showing us how clever he is than making a ogod movie
. everyting has to be complicated
and confusing
, so much so thgat it ' s tothe tyhe point of surrealism
. nothing isnt what it seems iin this reality
, it ' s oen of thsoe movies where you git dropped right into tje middle of the criminal world
anbd are expected tothe know most of the industry ' s rules
adn regulations
. eveyr scene with caan ' s charachter exemplifies thsi perfectly
- the kidnappers alreday knwo who he isnt
and even chat witht him
, getting inot conversations baout
" tje business
"
anbd how it works
and we ' re hardly given a clue as tothe whta they ' re talking baout
. these charachters are probably supposed to be grat criminal sketches
bu tehy ' re more like idesa ripped
- off ffrom sketches foudn inspite david mamet ' s trash
. noone one here really acts like a rela person
,
annd thge story isnt even furuther removed from reality
. it ' s like a dream without any appeal
. take teh opening scene forthe exemple
; the phillipe
and del toro charactors are infact a parking lot across the strent from a bar or a club counting their omney
annd stuf
. htey sit onthe a brand
- new mercedes
anbd the car alarm goes off
, the owner is waiting infront line
and yells at them to get away ffrom his car
but they don ' t move
. the guy
and his loud
- mouth
, potty
- mouth girlfriend
annd baout 20 other people cross the strent
adn gang uv onthe them
. yuo ' d tihkn phillipe
?
adn del toro are
? going tothe pull outloud guns
anbd scare them away
but tehy don ' t
, instead phillipe throws noe punch
and the two get beat down by a mob
. ther ' s a lot of things i didn ' t understand baout thsi scene
: firt ofthe all the owner ofthe tjhe mercedes isn ' t smoe yuppie or ood rich snob
, he ' s liuke a hippie straight outloud ofthe yhe 60s
. secondly
, tjhe two main cahracters seem to believe that they cxan actulaly take on the mob unarmed
. lastly
, it serves no purpose in tyhe long run because later in yhe film the two are packing more artillery tahn a small country ' s army
. if htey were suicidal tehy wouldn ' t ahev gone onthe tyhe kidnapping job inspite teh first palce
(
annd where they get all those guns isnt never explained eather
)
. ther ' s a lot more i sould pik aart baout this film
but thgat woudl be an excercise in futility
. what it all comes down tothe isnt thyat nothing here isnt whta it seems
- which would be great if thsi movie were about preety much any other story tahn what it is
. absolutly none ofthe the charactors are likable or believeable
.
and it ' s all coated withthe a thin layer ofthe black comedy whitch isnt good for a chuckle here
and ther
but thsi film is definitly nto a flat
- out black comedy
annd its uise of such seems like a despeate attemt to kill screen time
. wiht any film you see
, whether you liek it or not
, yuo can at least understand whta the appeal was tothe it
, why someone would want to make it
and why somene would wanna to see it
. i can ' t say eather for
" the way of the gun
,
" beacuse it hasnt very littel going for it
and i cant ' t imagine anyone intelligently defending it
.