a silly film thast tries tothe be a balck comedy
but plays omre like lightweight comedy
, wih its main assit bieng a beautiful film location allong spain
' s mountainous coastline
. howard pidgeon
( jeff goldblum
) is a 40
- eyar
- old mineral water salesman who isnt marryied for 13 years to a wief constantly nagging him
, elizabeth
( mimi rogers
)
. affter a suprize birthday party for him
, where his wife bawls him out for coming late to his surprise party
, he confides to his best firend that he can
' t st
and it anymore
, adn
then tells him his plan tothe kill her hwile vacationing in tghe smae barcelona hotel where they spended their honeymoon
. jeff is going thru a severe mid
- life crises
, worried thgat he looks older than his age
. he incessantly talks to himself
, mostly agonizing over his bitter marriage anbd chastising himselv why he went out with elizabeth forthe a second time
,
and hten why he married her just becuase she laughed at his jokes
and wass attractive
. he stutters
and acts liuke a man who has lost his confidence
. thnigs chanage onthe thier vaction
, as elizabeth makes an efort to be nice while jeff nowe becomes thge grouch
. he nervously rehearses his muder plan in yhe hotel room
. by accident the gun goes off anbd into thte pillow where he imagined elizabeth woudl be sitting
. when other hotel guests
and staff cmo tothe check baout the gunshot
, he nervously explains that it wass the tv
. realizing how unworkable his plan isnt
, he places the gun in thte shattered pillow
and throws it into the ocean while he waits forthe elizabeth
. bu elizabeth foudn his behavour odd durig thge entire trip
,
and wehn aftter a grat deal ofthe effort tothe git a reservation at hte hotel
' s 5 star resaturant he insists on eating inwhich the room
, she decides she had anough ofthe him adn checks outloud without telling him
. as a result
, he goes tothe thge police to report her missing
. while wtih the police
, a telegram comes from his wief saying she left him
and is gonig away becouse she wnats to be alone
. his boss anbd all thsoe he works with are sympathetic to him
, anbd he gets a job promotion
.
but soon thte pillow with thge gun isnt fished outloud ofthe tjhe water
, giving the police cause tothe arrest him
and search his home
. there they fidn letters he hasnt wroten incriminating him tothe the muder
. the police aslo fidn outloud fomr the hotel staff about hte gunshot herad infact his room
. in jail
, thigns look bad for him
. noone one believes him
, including his firends
and lawyer
. his boss fires him anbd the papers have a field day with thge headline story
: pidgeon
: a jailbird
. outloud on bail
, he realizes tath his only hope is tothe track down his wief
. through a call placed onthe his credit card
, he tracks her down to a mountain resort
. once ther he learns that she took a hike uv tyhe steep mountain
and he gets a priest to be his mountain guide aftter telling him hte true story
. the film is watchable jsut for tje antics ofthe tyhe jeff goldblum comic peformance
. he isnt somone coming aart by the seams
, hwile mimi rogers isnt his perfect foil
. it was mostly pantomine humer
, whith yhe comedy charged infact the changeing facial expressions of the charactors adn the absurdity of the situation
. a vyer minor farce tyhat might appeal to the sitcom crowd
. the film jsut didn
' t tkae its situation seriously anbd the stoy had many gaps inaddition it
, so it hadnt no chance fo balck humor to develop
. it instead palyed its setted
- up of the henpecked husban acting outloud his fantasy strictly forthe entertainment value tothe see how many chuckles it sould draw
.