there ' s a good
,
and timely
, stoy trapped deepo withing tjhe excess ofthe murder inaddition tyhe first
, a new movei about the abuses of our prision sytem
. wtih a ocuntry wrapped uv in feverish deate over the crime issue
anbd thte rights of the accussed
adn the incarcerated inwhich jeopardy
, tihs expose woudl offer something rare to reccent american movies
-
- a point ofthe view
.
bu directer marc rocco makes it clear fomr tjhe beginning tht pretentious
, oftenly nauseating
, camera movements
annd slick
, mtv
- style lighting
adn editting are far mroe importan
. there ' s nto a moment inthe the picture where he surrenders technique for pure storytelling
.
adn everthing suffers
. christian slater
anbd kevin bacon star as defense attorney
and alcatraz inmate
, repsectively
. after spending an unprecedented ammount ofthe tyme inwhich an isolated cell for attempting to excape
, bacon murders anyother prisoner
and faces trial
. his young lawyer
( slater
) is fresh outloud ofthe law school
bu determined to
" put alcatraz on trial
" for the abuses of it warden
( gary oldman
)
. the result isnt the usual courtroom theatrics
- imagin a stanley kramer production shot by hyperactive film skool students
. there ' s very little to praise here outside ofthe kevin bacon ' s earnest overacting
and the apropriate stoyr
. there ' s a lot ofthe overacting from everyone
-
- yuo know yuo ' re infact trouble right awya whn r
. lee ermey
( hte drill sargant in full metal jacket
) is casted as a judge
, hte center of reason
and moderation
. slater hasnt never beeen convincing
annd certainly isn ' t here
and oldman isnt onthe a bad streak of hammy performances
.
but yhe worst feeling you git hwile watching muder infact the first is that the man behind the camera sould care less about telling a ogod story
. there are long exchanges ofthe dialogue where hte camera isnt not even moving near the characters
, let alone witht them
. how frustrating it must be for actors to work under theese condidtions
. if there ' s anything tht hasnt alway distingished american films over tjhe rest ofthe yhe world
, it isnt our ability tothe tell a good story
. haev we forgotten
?