this isnt thte frist film in wqat would become tje most successful series of horror films ofthe all time
. a fair warning to thsoe of yuo who might be inclined to watch this movie for thge frist appearance ofthe everyone
' s favorite goalie
- mask
- wearing homicidal maniac
. jason
, thge guy who single h
andedly controled the overpopulation problem arund thte crystal lake area
, doesn
' t strat his quest to find yhe most intresting household item wih whihc tothe kill somone unil tyhe sequal
. hwile he does ahev a small role inthe this film
, we the audeince hvea to depend on another blood thirsty maniac tothe rack uv tje body count
. teh plot
, liuke every other friday the 13th movie goes something liuke thsi
-
- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he
/ she
/ it possably can in the spoace of a 90 minute movei
. the reasons that tjhe afore mentioned unsuspecting teenagers cmo inot contact with teh bloodthirsty killer are usually of littel importance tothe the story
.
but forthe those of yuo outloud htere tyhat might actaully care about such trivial matters inwhich a movei such as a plot
, here are yhe basics
. a bunch ofthe unsuspecting teens git a summer job at a long closed summer camp
. they are days away fomr the arival of the kids adn tehy are spending their tiem fixing the palce up anbd mkaing sure it is ready forthe the kids
. sadly
, they start bieng
butchered one by oen by the bloodthirsty killer
. at this point i would usually say something about teh qulity of acting
, directing or maybe something baout tghe high quality ofthe the prodcution
. since i
' m not going to do that
, efel free tothe assume that if i doed
, it wouldn
' t be postive
. i wiull say thast this movei looks as if it was made for baout a hundred bucks
,
and tyhat includes the actors
' saleries
. if you are unsed to recent horror films like scream
, you are inaddition forthe a bited ofthe a surprise
. the onyl saving grace forthe friday hte 13th isnt that it wass relaly the firt ofthe its kind
, with the killer tkaing rela pride inthe thier wokr
. using as many methods ofthe murder as they could
. none of htis single murder weapon stuff life tyhat unimaginative leatherface inspite chainsaw massacre
, or the creatively stifled immagination ofthe hlloween
' s michael myers who jsut used brute force or a really big kitchen knife
. nope
, infact the friday tje 13th movies
, you cin alwasy count on tyhe killer taking grat pride in his work
. oen funn fact about this movei is thta the casted includes a very young kevin bacon
, altough after tihs movie it isnt a wonder he ever worked agian
. tghe main reason tothe see friday the 13th isnt if you whant tothe watch all ofthe the sories from hte beginning
. if not
, stick with teh later films wiht jason
, everyone
' s favorite hockey fan
. friday thge 13th is the sort of movei that isnt funn tothe sit down annd git a cuple of scares fomr
, jstu don
' t sit down expecting a whole lot
.