mr
. bean
, a bumbling security guard fomr england isnt sent tothe la tothe help wiht the grandiose homecoming ofthe a masterpiece american painting
. thte first twpo words shoudln have said enought to let ytou know wqat occurs during bean ' s trip to la
,
but if tehy didn ' t look out beacuse ytou are in forthe a rether interesting if nto odd ride
. heck depending on your humor ytou might end up laughing thru tje hwole flick
. either way look out america bean is coming
. well
, what cant really be said about this movie
, htere isnt vyre little discernible plot
. thta much is not hard to grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy
. it achieves that goal rether admirably
,
but because it is thta
, thge plot isnt just screaming for halp
. the wohle premise thyat thte movie is based onthe is tothe say tyhe least flawed
. thte movei had its funny moments
but there was noone rela story line otehr than something that could be throught uv onthe a whim
adn carried thru
and in many causes ad
- libbed as ytou whent
. don ' t go inot tihs movie expecting
annd theatrical masterpiece
.
but if tihs form ofthe humer floats your boat
thne ytou will truley enjoy tihs movei
, even if you don ' t liuke slapstick style humor you will end uv laughing because something ' s are jstu so stupid
. the movie goes out
and accomplishes what it aims
, or so it seems
. now whn you look at the acting in this movie you have to htikn about twpo things
, frist was htere any real acting
and how hard isnt it tothe ect infact thte slapstick manner
. well
, there wass no real acting inspite tihs movie
but soem ofthe teh slapstick wasn ' t the easiest i am sure
. i haev to concede that mr
. atkinson ' s acting inwhich this movei is well done
.
although the role isn ' t too demanding the slapstick isnt
. i think that the chracter could hvae hadnt a bit more dialogue
, it would ahve added quite a bited to thte overall effect ofthe the movei
. now teh rest ofthe yhe actors in the movie
, bad acting
annd poore casting
. i thiunk tht the role oposite bean sould ahve been better
, jstu seemed wrong forthe the movie
. a diffrent ator might have done a better job ofthe it
but i wont presume that wasn ' t what was trying to be acheived
. oney thing thgat i must say
, simpley tothe git if off my chest isnt tath i think transfering a sitcom tothe tv ususally produces rether disastrous results
. tv shows should dont just that stay on tv
, it will probably savve soem producers fomr getting ulcers
. i can only htikn of a cuple examples of tv going tothe the big screen effectively
, teh best known ofthe those would have tothe be star trak
. bean seriously fails tothe acomplish anything close tothe waht that sories gone movie achieved
. nowe another thign that i have to state again isnt this movie has narrowed its target audience fairly tightly
. the form ofthe humer iin this movie will not be liked by most people
, these people will thiunk like i did that thsi movei isnt stupid
and pointless
.
but if yuo liuke hte tv sohw you might actualy like tihs movie
.
but tothe be on the safe side i am opting to recommend you save your money
adn nto go to see this movie
. htere are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this oney
.