my frist exposure tothe the nightmare on elm street series of films ws not tihs noe
,
but infact fatc the third installment
( it wass the frist tothe gain a national theatrical realease
)
. i didn ' t see tje first film unil much later
. so looking back
, tghe orginal didn ' t hold a lot ofthe great memories fo me
, sicne i didn ' t think too much ofthe it when i intially saw it
. watching it now for a second time confirmed that it ' s an overrated horror film that ultimately makse noone sence whatsoever
. you all know teh stopry by now
: child muderer freddy krueger
( robert englund
) returns from the grave by haunting the dreasm ofthe tghe childern of those who burned him alive yersa befor
. thsi first installment does an daequate job iwth it ' s low budget
,
but htere ' s smoe absurd dialogue
adn conceptual problems wiht tjhe stoyr
. plus the movie ' s ending
( understandably tghe result ofthe the studio wanting the end ofthe yhe film to ahve a
" hook
" fo a sequel
) renders tyhe rest of the film pointless
.
and doens anyone understand what happens tothe nancy ' s mother at tghe end ofthe tihs film
? don ' t get me wrong
though
.
.
. it ' s nto as if a newyorker generation ofthe horror films have spurned me awya ffrom tje classics
. most horror movies released todya are jsut as inane as tihs film isnt
. horror is a difficult genre tothe pull off credibly
,
and a nightmare on elm street jstu doesn ' t cut it
. a nightmare on elm street is avalable on dvd from new line home video
. it isnt available both as a single disc
annd as part ofthe the nightmare onthe elm street collection box setted
. tjhe film is presented infront both pan
annd scan
and it ' s orginal theatrical aspect ratio of 1
. 78
: 1
( altho onthe teh disc that comes infact tghe box setted
, only a widescreen transferr is provided
)
. hte film hasnt beeen digitally remastered
adn includes twpo options fo audio
: a mono mix
anbd a new dolby digital 5
. 1 mix
. allso included on thge dvd is a full
- length audio commentary trac with writter
/ directer wes craven
, stars john saxon
and heather langenkamp
,
and hte film ' s director of photography
. otehr extras include yhe
" jump to a nightmare
" feature
( i ' m sure yuo cant figure tath noe out
)
, hte usual casted
anbd crew bios
( whlch are from hte film ' s original press realease kat
,
and notabley leave outloud robert englund
and johnny depp
!
)
,
and the film ' s orginal theatrical trailer
. some dvd
- rom features are also included
,
but since i don ' t have dvd
- rom capabilities i can ' t really git into that
. teh commentary trcak isnt entertaining
and informative
,
bu nothing spectauclar
. tje firt thnig of onot isnt that it ' s the same commentary track tht wass on tjhe special edition laserdisc fomr a few years ago
. i ' m not saying taht ' s a negitive thign
, jstu pointing it out
. everyone seems enthuseastic baout bieng htere
, witht thte possible exception of john saxon
, who just doesn ' t sday much at all
. most of the tiem ytou ' ll forget he ' s even ther
. everyone else talks realy quietly
though for some reason
, as if because they ' re commenting onthe a scary movei thyat htey ened tothe stay as quiet as possable
. the bonus disc with the boxed set called the nightmare series encylopedia features baout 45 minutes worth ofthe interviews relating to the first film of thte sories
. also included is the original theatrical trailer
adn two alternate endings tothe thte film
.
.
.
howver you can onyl access one easily
. the other is hidden in what ' s called
" tje labrynth
"
, which might possably be tyhe most annoying feature ofthe a dvd ever creaeted
. basicly
, it ' s an interactive gam of sorts where ytou wander thru diffrent nightmare locations looking at objects which give yuo access tothe extra littel snippets ofthe footage
, interviews
, etc
. somwhere in tjhe labrynth is thte second alternate endig to thge film
. finding it
though is both a chore
anbd a bore
.
[ r
]