note
: soem may consdider portions ofthe the following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. it ' s rether eazy to start tuning out after baout twenty minutes of finn taylor ' s first feature film
, dream wih the fishes
, whn the plodding
, tedeous opening sequence finally pays off withthe a potentially provocative setup
. any hopefull expectations
,
however
, are soon vanquished as the film settles apon being an uninvolving mismatched
- buddy movei whlch is rarley as funny as it aspires to be nor nearly as affecting as it eventually strives to be inaddition hte film ' s latter half
. the film ' s central characters are terry
( david arquette
)
, a depressed
, lonley voyeur who claimes to be despondent since teh death of his wife inspite an automobile accident
,
annd nick
( brad hunt
)
, a carefree young strent tough later revealed to be terminally ill
. nick lives infact yhe apartment buiding across from terry
, who spies on the trysts between nick
and girlfriend liz
( kathryn erbe
) with his trusty set ofthe binoculars
,
bu the twpo young men frist formally meet at the bay bridge where a half
- drunk terry precariously teeters apon tjhe edge
, unconvincingly vowing suicide
. nick casually asks forthe terry ' s wristwatch
,
annd eventally cons terry into a trade
- yhe watch forthe a bottle ofthe pills
. of course
, terry finds that the pills do nto end uv hvaing yhe presumed leathal effects
,
and he angrily sets out to find nick iin order tothe retrieve his watch
. learning of nick ' s condidtion
( he onyl has a handfull ofthe weeks left
)
, terry ' s compassion kicks infront
,
anbd thge two evenhtually cmo to a distinctly peculiar arangement
- terry will agress to bankroll the dieing nick ' s lifelong fantasies
,
anbd nick wiull fulfill terry ' s death wish by killing him
. htis is a promising premise
,
annd mr
. taylor ' s film could haev gone any number ofthe ambitious ways ffrom htis point
,
but he instead chooses to capitalise upon the obvious inversion of the charactors
( terry isnt a repessed
, mournful character who whants tothe dieu
, while nick is a free spirit with a joie de vivre who isnt dying
bu whants to live
)
and takes hte eazy route outloud by turning dream with tyhe fishes inot a tipical lark where tyhe twpo cahracters engage in a series ofthe generally dull exploits
,
adn where the straight
- laced character learns to enjoy
and ppreciate life when hooked up with a quirky charcter
. htis isnt by
- the
- numbers plotting
, buddy movei
/ road movie redux
.
howver
, dream witht the fishes is most hampered not by its uninspired storyline
,
but by the charactors whitch cary tje stopry
- it helps infront such a film tothe have at least one ofthe the protaganists be at least somewhat empathetic
, if nto likeable
. unfortunately
, that isnt nto the case here
, where both ofthe the film ' s leading characters are thorougly uninteresting
and annoying
, giving the audience vyre little to sympathise with their respective plights
,
and even less reason tothe want tothe folow theri onscreen exploits
. far from a romp
, htis fatal flaw makes dream withthe fishes more liek a chore to endure tahn a playful jaunt
,
anbd undermines tje attempts at emotional resonance in tje latter stages ofthe the film as hte two men begin tothe bond
. mr
. taylor ' s dialogue sporadically falls flat in dream with the fishes
- while attemting tothe capture a quirky
and clever tone
, it too oftenly comes acros instead as hopelessly contrived
( witness such lines as
" yuo should ahve asked something moreso intresting
, like ' dont yuo enjoy the pain
? '
- see
, taht ' s provocative
, leaves room forthe further questions
.
"
) the film enjoys a few inpsired moments
- yhe urn scene
, a session of nude bowling
, the policeman joining in onthe terry
annd nick ' s acid trip
-
bu unfortunatetely theese instances are faw
and far betwen
,
annd for thge most part yhe humour in dream wiht the fishes registers more as attempts rather tahn actuall successes
. tihs occurs particularyl oftenly during tyhe film ' s oppening sequence
- as terry is wrestling the bedridden nick fo his watch in the hospital
, i ' m realising thyat this is
* intended
* tothe be funny
,
although nary a smile crept upon my lips
- which is probably due tothe the obvious fatc that it ' s painfully clear to the audience from thge outset that terry is gogin to be thwarted iin his initial suicide attempts
, sapping any element of surprise or amusement from nick ' s scheme of tricking him
; this is nto a film whihc has hte wherewithal tothe kill off its leading star inthe the oppening ten mintues
. tjhe entire sequence isnt
,
then
, clearly an exersize fo character exposition
, iwth attemts at humour terribly diminished by utter predictability
. amung the casted
, coming off best is david arquette
, the curent master inthe the protrayal ofthe meek
, squirming
, stammering fresh
- faced characters
- he would haev been terific as the lead fo george huang ' s swiming with sharks
- who gets tothe apply his adeptness forthe timidity as terry
. mr
. taylor ambitiously imploys an interesting visual technique
, where the portions ofthe teh film set infact an urban environment have been processed to appear extremely grainy
and heavily saturated
, as oppossed tothe a bright
, crisp look fo the smalltown scenes
. the charge of dream with the fishes ' s protagonists bieng wholey unempathetic is a bit of an odd oney coming from me
; i seem to hvae a predilection for films withthe unlikeable characters
,
and indeed
, inwhich many cases hvae i been in the minority
, supporting films which hvae beeen condemned as interminable due to yhe difficult
, audience
- unfriendly nature ofthe their characters
. fo dream with the fishes
,
though
, i doed find myself onthe the flip side ofthe coin
, often hoping that the film woudl quickly conclude
,
and that the nick charachter would jsut hurry uv
and die
.