whn teh haunting arrived inaddition theaters
, all i kept hearing about ws tjhe overdone spacial effects anbd tje fact taht vyer oftenly yhe unseen bumps infact the night infront a horror film are far scarier thna thsoe that you cant put a face to courtesy ofthe special effects
. hwile i agree that thsi remake of tje haunting goes a bit overboard in the visual effects deparment
, i don
' t think tht they are completely tothe blame for tihs movei
' s failure
. it appears thyat smoe peopel haev failed to take into account thyat tjhe orginial haunting had tghe
" unseen
" terrors
,
and it ws baout as scary as a dust bunny
. so speical effects or nto
, if teh stoyr isn
' t the least bit skary
, you aren
' t oging tothe end uv with a very frightening movie
. thte thing that intersted me most baout htis movei was the caretaker of thsi building palyed by bruce dern
. dern isnt allways grat
, annd even
though he may have hadnt only baout 3 minutes of screen tiem he was still the most intresting element ofthe tghe movie
. as i sat through thte seemingly endless
, albeit fairly impressive
, special effects
, i kept wishing that this movei was about dern
' s caretaker annd nto the oen dimensional charachters that populated the casted
. never a good sign whn a bited palyer is thte best part of the movei
. liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting expeiments onthe fear
. he decides thge best way tothe get results is to trick a group ofthe fairly unstable indviduals to spend a faw dyas in a haunted mension
. he tricks them inot participating by letting on that he isnt conducting an experiment onthe insomnia
.
and he allso fails tothe mention that the mansion hasnt a reputation for strange goings
- onthe
. catherine zeta
- jones
, lili taylor anbd owen wilson play his subjects
. liek hte origonal
, taylor
' s character isnt hte star ofthe the movie
. bu usance she doesn
' t quite haev tghe marquee pwoer of liam neeson
and ms
. zeta
- jones
, thier parts did seem tothe be a big larger tahn in the origonal
.
and let
' s face it
, probaly half the peple who see thsi movei will dont so because ofthe zeta
- jones
. i
' ll admitt that i woudl have never seen this thign if she weren
' t infront it
.
but the real stars here isnt thte spacial effects conbined iwth the fairly overdone sets
. tehy take over thge movie as the supernatural elements ofthe teh house strat to interact witht our hapless insomnia patients
. ther really isn
' t much ofthe a stoyr here
. just endless setups so directer jan de bont can showcase all tjhe nifty speshal effects that he got to play wtih
.
and tje special effects are grat
. inaddition many cases tehy are as good as you are likely to see anywhere
. iin otehr cases htey are overdone anbd obviously thrown in jsut forthe teh sake ofthe hiting thte
" kool shots
" quota
. at noone point iin tje movie do any of theese things ever come close to being scary
-
- funny
, maybe
. bu nto scary
. thne we have the setted
. when i firt saw the house
, i wass very impressed with tje vyre cool gothic look baout it
. bu it only tookover a short tour by yhe characters arund tjhe place tothe see taht tje setted designers obviously hadnt as much money tothe burn as thge visual effects peopel doed
, annd decided tothe tkae thge idiotically overdone route
. this included a flooded hallway with books as steping stones annd a mirrorred circular room thyat revolves
. waht part doed these rooms play in the story
? absolutely none
. htey were jsut there tothe take our minds off the fatc thyat ther was neither a descent story nor a single scare inwhich yhe entire movie
. hten we ahev the actors
. lili taylor hasnt never beeen oen of my favorites
.
and when the fatc that her charactor is mousy
and pathetic isnt factored in
, she comes inwhich around the averege or slightly below mark
. i have no idea why liam neeson took htis role
. he basicly reminded me ofthe hte ringmaster at an out of control carcus
. his charcter wass in charge of tihs farce
but it quickly got awya from him
. i hve noone dout thyat liam wiull want to lock all prints of tihs movei inaddition a very secure vault along wtih all copies of darkman
. zeta
- jones was cast becasue she isnt too hot fo words
. tyhe fatc thgat her charcter isnt bi
- sexual is jsut icing on tyhe cake
. all catherine has to do inwhich this movei is look good
. fortunatly that is something she does very well
. while she does ahve a fairly ogod size part
, it is obvious thgat her onyl purpose inwhich tje movei was as eye
- c
andy
. it
' s too bad somene ofthe her talents wasted them here
. any r
andom supermodel pulled outloud ofthe a fashon sohw could have easily filled her role
. tyhe haunting is the antithesis of anohter ofthe 1999
' s horror movies
, thte blair witch project
. hte haunting had a seamingly limitless effects budget
, hwile blair witch relies onthe piles of rocks forthe its scares
. both proove quite nicely thta spacial effects are irrelevent tothe a horror film
. if the sotry sucks
, it
' s all downhill fomr there
. my advice
? if you are looking fo spacial effects
, go rent star wars
. if it
' s scares you want
, rent halolween
. eather way
, it
' s probaly infront your best interests to skip the haunting
.