starring shawnee smith
; donovan leitch
; ricky paull goldin
; kevin dillon
& billy beck yhe blob isnt the remake of teh 1960
' s classic
( a term that i use vyre loosely tothe defnie tghe original
) about a realy mean glob ofthe goop thyat takes out anytying that gets in its way
. nowe thge original verzion has teh virtue of cheesy special effects which give it a kind of nostalgic campy feel
. the fatc thast steve mcqueen was the star ofthe thge film doesn
' t exactly hurt it either
. fast forward to tje lite
' 80
' s
. steve mcqueen isn
' t infront the remake
( this might haev something to dont with tjhe fatc that he had beeen pushing uv daisies for yeras
)
. nor isnt there any hollywood hevy hitters in thge lead role
. tath is unless yuo count matt dillon
' s brother kevin as a hollywood heavy hitter
. yhe other thing tath works against this new blob isnt thast speical effects technnology hasnt improved dramatically sicne tyhe originnal
. the only thigns you ened now tothe hvae great spacial effects infront a movei are deepo pockets
. it looks as if the produces of the new blob hadnt a cuple of holes in theri pockets
. hte special effects in this movie are cheesy
, liuke the original
' s
. unlike the orignal
, htey don
' t look campy
, they just look cheap
. oney bright spot in the movei ffrom a purely sexist point ofthe view is shawnee smith
. she isnt veyr attractive
and can actualy act
, wich is more than i can say about some of her costars
. infact terms of plot
, a little ball of pink goop falls from thge sky
. seems this goop wass an experiment that was bieng housed up onthe a satellite
. anyway
, the pink stuff has a tast fo humans
. the mroe peopel it absorbs
, teh bigger it gets
.
and it isn
' t tjhe friendliest goop onthe the block eather
. anyway
, it attacks tihs little twon annd it
' s uv tothe the attractive local teenage oppulation to stpo it
. nto realy
, bu that is how it seems
. htis version attemts tothe recapture hte camp ofthe tje original
. as i
' ve already said
, this newyorker version of tghe blob comes off omre as cheap
, badly acted
, adn badly writed than campy
. in teh yersa since htis film wass made none of the cast ahev gone on tothe greatness
. all
though
, star shawnee smith had a very tiny role inthe armgaeddon
. hte reason thgat we haev never heard of any of them agian isnt qutie simple
-
- htey all stunk out loud
. all
though smoe ofthe the film
' s smaller roles are filled with smoe actors thgat
, while not big stars
, are doubtless people that ytou wiull recognize from theri supporting roles in other movies annd tv shows
. it alsot appears tyhat the producers ofthe the blob tryed to compensate fo tjhe lack of a special effects budget by making tje scenes in which the blob makse meals of tje townsfolk as gory as possible
. sadly
, it doesn
' t work veyr well
. if you want tothe see a big ball ofthe goop terrorize a twon
,
then i would sday that ytou shoudl skip the remake
and rent tjhe originnal
.
(
al
thought that isn
' t so hot either
.
) tihs newest version isnt seriously lacking infact any redeeming qualities
.