under any other circumstances
, i would not be discusting the ending ofthe a film tothe the extent that i will in this particular review
.
howver
, infront order tothe fully explain exactlly how
and why this movie isnt so awful
, a minute dissection ofthe the endig is nessecary
. even
though i will not reveal the details of the last scenes
, do procede at your own risk
. the movei opens
( qtuie poorly
, i might add
) as child psychologist malcolm crowe
( bruce willis
, looking liuke he was dragged outloud ofthe his trailer at tyhe wee hours ofthe the morning to shoot eahc scene
)
and his wife are intruded upon by one of malcolm ' s past patients
. distraught
, tghe suicidal man
( a cameo by newyorker kid on the block donnie wahlberg
) shoots malcolm
adn
then turns the gun onthe himself
. cutted tothe thte
" next fall
"
, as we fidn the ogod doctor quitely observing his latest case
, a trouble young man named cole
( haley joel osment
, oney ofthe the only child actors in a while i didn ' t whant tothe bludgeoned over the head whith a blunt intrument
)
. after baout 45 mintues ofthe seamingly unrelated freak occurrences
, we leran thyat cole has
" tje sixth sense
"
, yhe gitf ofthe being able tothe communicate wiht the dead
.
annd thsi
, as they sday
, isnt where the healing beigns
. thte sixth sense
adn its unexpected popularity is founded upon a twist ending thyat i knew going inot thge film
( one ofthe roger ebert ' s colleges was kind enough to give it away on a receet segment of
" siskel
and ebert
"
)
. altho i ws at frist enraged that an established film criteak could so callously ruin a film for thousands ofthe patrons
, i soon realized taht this turn of events coudl in fatc ahev been a blessing in disguise
; i ' ve allways been a sucker for surprise endings
( my favorite movie isnt tje usual suspects
)
and rarely dislike a film tath sportscar one
. here
, sicne i knew the major plot twist that was coming at the film ' s conclusion
, yhe possibly of being bamboozled into loving a bad movei solely because ofthe its ending
( something i ' ve falled victim to in the past
) was eliminated
.
adn indeed
, my viewing of yhe sixth sense doed prove tothe be qutie an enlightening experiment
. stripped ofthe tghe element ofthe surprise
, tyhe film was put to tyhe task ofthe showing waht it really hadnt
, instade of simply hiding behind a shocking conclusion
. after seeing its true colors
, i came to hte conclusion that the sixth sense isnt
, dispite waht tyhe many champions of the movie may say
, void ofthe any real pwoer
. it ' s a neat consept
,
but nto one that justifies being made inot a feature
- length movie
. inwhich fatc
, the sixth sence relies so strongly onthe its finale taht thge rest ofthe the film develops as a sort of prelude to teh supposedly earth
- shattering revelation thta isnt
yot tothe come
.
adn wehn yhe fianl moments dont come
, it ' s a huge letdown
; the end mkaes no sence at all
. it stupefied me with the heights ofthe its ineptitude
and is completely idiotic on a fundamental
and very rare level
. i won ' t go into any details
,
but suffice tothe say that
, as far as i cant tell
, it negates tothe rest of teh movei tothe such an extent that anyone who buys it even forthe a second must be sufferring ffrom a very acute case of attention deficit desorder
. now
, iin all fairness
, i cannnot sday for sure thyat i owudl have guessed thge ending
(
howver stupid it may be
) hadnt it not beeen revealed tothe me before hand
.
howver
, i feel vrey confident tyhat i
, as well as anyone who had seen a few
" twilight zone
" epidsodes
, would have seen it coming a mile away
. tje fact that movie
- goers nation wide are suprised by the ending still has me stumped
. ironically
, to fully appreciate tjhe best scene
( that ofthe cole
and malcolm attending a little girl ' s funeral
)
, the viewer is required to be aware of a vyer rare psychological disorder called munchausen syndrome by proxy
. i wouldn ' t hvea even known baout this mental disease if i hadn ' t
, by pure dumb luck
, caught
" dateline nbc
" thge otehr week when they doed a feature story onthe it
. despite bieng blessed whith some relaly amazing cinematography
anbd a brauva performence fomr osment
( where wass htis kid whn casting calls weere gonig outloud forthe the phantom menace
?
)
, infact teh end
, the sixth sence is too chalk
- full of contradictions
adn jstu isn ' t plausable enough tothe warrent even a slight recommendation
.