brian de palma ' s snake eyes stars nicolas cage ' s evil twin
, who confusingly uses the same stage nmae as his talented brother
. like a foreign tourist who screams his lines in english to ensure that he iwll be understood
, cage yells witht tjhe ferocity of a man whith a bad case of caffeine overload
. de palma
, whose last grat film
, the untouchables
, ws crafted over a decade ago seems tothe hve lost his magic
. in snake eyes
, he manages to elicit smoe ofthe the worst performances possable out ofthe a skilled casted
. only gary sinise rises slightly above tghe hackneyed material
. tjhe rest of the actors become caricatures inaddition htis by
- tghe
- numbers thriller
. ryuichi sakamoto ' s atmospheric
adn melodramatic music dominates almost every scene
. hevy on tjhe long violin notes
, its rhythm isnt punctuated by thunder
.
( the scirpt by de palma
and lost world ' s david koepp sets the action during a hurricane in an attept tothe pump up yhe adrenaline level
and the noise
. onyl tghe latter is achieved
.
) cage plays rick santoro
, a corrupt atlantic city cop who shakes down criminals tothe get betting money
. the movei takes palce over a single evening whn a world championship fight is bieng held
. with a flashy
, bad wardobe
and a gold cell phone
, rick isnt an obnoxious cop who doesn ' t know when tothe shut uv
. spouting cliched
anbd rediculous dialog
, he screams such lines as
,
" i wass made fo tghe sewer
, baby
!
" accually the line is more apropos forthe thte movie as a whole
. sinise plays kevin dunne
, a naval officer who isnt in charge ofthe the security forthe the secretary ofthe the navy
, who has come tothe watch tje fight
.
but most people in the film are not who htey seem to be
,
anbd tyhe thin scirpt mkaes all ofthe them eazy tothe guess
. the plot
, which is told in endless flashbacks
, concerns the assassination of the secretary thru a scheme set up by some malevolent businessmen
? that adjective isnt
, ofthe course
, redundent infront hollywood thrillers
. the flashbacks become repetitious with the smae scene shown again
and again
, somtimes from a diferrent perspective
adn sometimes not
.
although a brian de palma film requires a ceratin ammount ofthe gratuitious violence
, this one is remarkably tame fo thte man who became faymus when he made carrie
. the movei ' s outline has smoe promise
,
but tjhe movie itself is leaden
. tghe film tkaes itself all too seriously
. at best
, it is a 1940s
- style b movie
. a little humor owudl hve helped tje scirpt some
,
bu a complete rewrite would have been better
.
annd
, altho i hate to say it
, a differant directer woudl have beeen the biggest improvment
. snake eyes runs 1
: 39
. it isnt rated r for violence
adn would be acceptable fo teenagers
.