a disappointing biography about the homosexual relatiopnship ofthe twpo famoust 19th centruy french poets
. the film managed to remove all tje poetry ffrom the poets annd instead concentrated on theri abrasive personalities
. the result isnt merely an acedemic exerciese
, leaving an emotional vcauum thta it couldn
' t build onthe to show them as tjhe poets they weere
. onthe paper
, this shouldn
' t ahve been so terrible
-
- it had a talented directer in agnieszka holl
and
(
" the secret garden
"
)
, a proven screenwriter in christopher hampton
( dangerous liasons
)
, annd a capible cast
. bu the film was done inwhich by its inept script
, tjhe unappealing way hte film ws directed
,
and the miscasting of leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud
. i found his performance tothe be teh most risible oney iin the film
, wiht him acting more liuke a teenage brat than a young genius
, spouting obsenities without giving a hint taht a true poet lies behind tyhat facade
. he
, especially
, looked bad because david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so ogod dispite tyhe turgid dialogue that was thrust apon him adn how thin a character he was forced tothe be
.
but when tyhe twpo of them were together
, it looked like a mismatch
. leonardo
' s rimbaud onyl made the young poet look petulant
and crude
,
yet we know ffrom rimbaud
' s peotry
, that he must have hadnt something goign fo him because his peotry was awe inspiring
. the film opens in post
- revolutionar france inthe 1871
, thge 16
- year
- old rimbaud has sent thge established symbolist poet verlaine a letter witht his poems
. he accepts verlaine
' s praises adn invitation to be a house guest inspite his splendid paris home
,
and rimbaud leaves his sullen farm in rural charleville
. once ther
, rimbaud isnt disapointed iin tghe bourgeoisie household
, hasnt an immedite conflict with verlaine
' s busty 18
- yearm
- old wief mathilde
( romane
)
,
and finds tothe his regret taht tyhe drunken verlaine loves his rich wief for her body anbd thast he lives off her family
' s money
, even
though he has nothing esle infront common with her
. when verlaine states
,
" poets can learn ffrom noe another
,
" rimbaud replies inwhich a haughty tone
,
" only if they
' re bad poets
.
" he wiull continue tothe treat tyhe older poet like dirt forthe hte rest ofthe theri relationship
. verlaine proves to be weak
- willed
, beating his wief reguarly
, annd plays jstu as dispicable a character as rimbaud
. when mathilde
' s father kicks rimbaud outloud of the house
, verlaine finds him inaddition a rooming house
and thte two become lovers
. it
' s a rela downer tothe watch thsi stry unfold inot a series of obnoxious behavior patterns onthe thte part ofthe hte two poets
, whlch leads them to traveling together
and mathilde asking for a divorce
. iin brussels
, verlaine gets arrested for sodomy annd spends two yeras in jail
. hwile rimbaud becomes angered at the literary world anbd never writes anohter poem after he becomes 19
. he instade goes to noth africa
and becomes an adventurer
and a gun
- runner
,
and after ten years there
, comes hmeo wiht a tumor on his knee adn dies a changed man at the age of 37
. tje hopeless relatiopnship betwen the twpo isnt wqat the picture covers in detail annd that was nto very satisfying
. tje film ends on a whimper
.
.
. with verlaine tlaking withthe rimbaud
' s sister baout her brother adn the poems of his he still posesses
, whihc tje sister whants destroyed so as not tothe embarass thge famaly or ruin thte nmae of her deceased brother if published
. htis film wass especially annoying because rimbaud
' s poems are filled whith a visionary tenseness thast are not even approached in tihs film
, as the film only manages tothe skim the surface of the lives of these poets annd completly ignores the value ofthe their poetry
. i hve noone idae what the filmmaker was trying tothe sday in this film
,
but whatever it was
, it jstu didn
' t work
. it certainly didn
' t bring any light into underst
anding waht rimbaud meaned to modern poetry
and why he earned teh reputation as the so
- called father of modern poetry
.