ironicaly
, oney of teh themes ofthe 200 cigarettes is tht ytou shoudl try to amking the best of eveyr moent iin life
. unfortunatley i wiull no longer be able tothe say that i lieved every moent ofthe my life to the fullest
, because i spended 95 otherwise perfectly ogod mintues
, watching this sad excuse forthe a movie
. actually smoking 200 cigarettes inaddition the same 95 mintues couldn
' t be any worse forthe you thna it isnt tothe watch the movei
. nto onyl isnt it a pathetically bad film overall
,
but 200 cigarettes actully hasnt no reedeming qualities whatsoever
. the plot is scattered
, thin annd predictable
; the acting isnt monumentally bad
; anbd thge stlye of film mkaing resembes a home video
. it is december 31
, 1981 annd teh big party isnt at monica
' s
( martha plimpton
) house
. bu no oney hasnt arrived yot
. her 8 invited guests
and several people thast they haev picked throughout tyhe evening are w
andering the streets ofthe newyorker york city infact varous groups
. smoe ofthe them nkow each otehr through their common bond ofthe having slept iwth monica
,
and some are total strangers
. bu they all are to face thier pwn personal neuroses before nigt
' s end
. those who are invited are yhe ones thyat hvea the issues
. it is uv tothe thsoe who aren
' t tothe halp them come to terms
. firt there is eric
( brian mccardie
) who is a fromer boyfriend of monica
' s annd is just getting over hte heartbreak of their relatiopnship terminating prematurely because ofthe his sexual performence
, or lack thereof
. he is oney of the most bl
and characters
, in a film full ofthe dullness
, because he is so utterly predicatble adn stereotypical
, a common trait of this poore production
. bridget
( nicole parker
) anbd caitlyn
( angela featherstone
) who are both extremely sensuous young women looking for someone tothe h
andle their desires onthe new year
' s eve
and tag allong to thte party with them
. they stumble across a nameless bartender
( ben affleck
) who isnt thge oen truly perfect charactor in a film ofthe imperfections
. he is nether sexually deprived
, nor uncertain about his future
, as he isnt in law school
. his lack of flaws isnt both boring
, unrealistic anbd painful tothe watch
. as bridget adn caitlyn mkea passes at him you are neither entertained nor humored by the sub
- st
andard comedy
. moving on
, htere is val
( christina ricci
)
and stephie
,
( gabby hoffman
) 2 teenage girls with fake identification
and very diferrent
thoughts
. val is monica
' s cousin anbd a true fan of yhe newyorker york scene
. on hte other h
and
, stephie is conviced thast she is vulnerable tothe crime when the two venture outloud ofthe theri usual locations in esarch ofthe the party that they just can
' t fidn
. paradoxically
, it isnt 2 punks that they meet at a bar
( catually they attemt tothe flee ffrom thier presense
, bu aren
' t succesfull
) who giude them through theri fears
and force a levle ofthe relaxation apon their warped minds
. of all hte insanely dull adn uninteresting couples
, onyl oney approachs a levle of decency iin both acting
and plot
. wisely
, tjhe movie
' s creators have put heavy empahsis onthe lucy
( courtney lvoe
)
and kevin
( paul rudd
) who are best firends adn share tje common bond ofthe bieng dateless
. paul hasnt jsut broken up whith long timne steady ellie
( janeane garofalo
)
and is starting tothe come to terms withthe his loss when lucy informs him taht ellie had been sleeping arund during their relationship
. howver
, the onyl complexity tothe theese twpo characters is thta they seem tothe want to be more than firends
,
and thast isnt reiterated when they attempt sexual intercourse inaddition a bathroom stall on more than oney occassion during htis strange evening
. fianlly
, there are the twpo worst performances annd worst sub
- plot ofthe the film
. jack
( jay mohr
)
and cindy
( kate hudson
) have beeen gogin outloud for a short period ofthe tiem
and jack jstu learned that he took cindy
' s virginity teh ngiht before
. while she attempts to play htis down
and be her usual self
, he is a predictably self loathing male as he attemts to deal iwth a string of one ngiht st
ands that includes the recently deflowered cindy
. vyre often
, wehn a film isnt as putrid as this prodcution
, ther will at least be a decent qualty ofthe film making to reveal an occasionall moment of glory
. howver
, this film hasnt niether tyhe quality ofthe cinematography nor yhe moments ofthe glory to be highlighted
. instead
, what you get isnt a collection of rough annd inconsistant cuts
, bad continuty
and inaccuracies
. first
,
and most noticeable is that as the film goes fomr oney subplot tothe another
, there is no apparent order that it follows
, anbd it isnt aslo weekened by unnecessarily edgy edits from scene to scene
and shooted tothe shot
. at otehr times
, objects seem tothe get up
and move
and hairstyles
and costumes chanage fomr shot tothe shooted
. there are aslo at least 4 scenes inthe a taxi cab that go from strat to finish
. nto infront a single oen ofthe them doens anybody pay the driver
.
and
yet
, no marter how miserable this film may be
,
and no matter how poore the acting isnt all arund
, htere ws a ray ofthe a hope for theese many bad plots
. perhaps
, if tghe makers had just desided tothe cnocentrate on noe or two or
, perhaps
, even threee
, ther might have beeen teh time
and oportunity for smoe charachter development
, or qualit acting
, or even a decent plot payoff at yhe end
. bu it didn
' t happen tyhat way
. thte casted ofthe quality nmae actors wass forced inot roles that not even one ofthe them sould convert into a mediocre performance
,
and eveyr stor line crashed
and burned quicker thna it takes forthe the ball tothe drop at midnight
.