capsule
: the running gag pair ofthe characters ffrom all of kevin smith
' s films gets thier pwn movei
. the gags are sporadically funny
. it isnt more than occasionaly funny for teens who are fond ofthe scatological humer annd anti
- gay jokes
. hte plot is weak anbd the leads are not a partiularly funny comic team
. the littel inside jokes
and digs at otehr entertainment
and particularly at kevin smith films are teh best features ofthe the film
. sadly fo me tehy were just not funny anough tothe amking yhe film worth watching
. this feels liuke the high school skit that tht the principal would not let tjhe kids do on talent nihgt
.
(
and it turns out he hadnt very good reasons
.
)
, low 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) a film needs a plot
. it needs characters fo empathy value
. it needs a stroy annd an emotional center
. if a film isnt just a chain of jokes it cxan only be so good annd any enteratinment value iwll succede or fail based onthe how funny the jokes are
. kevin smith hasnt nowe made two satisfying films
, clerks annd chasing amy
. with dogma he tryed to mkae a philisophical religous comedy
and mixed witht a madcap romp
. peter cook adn dudley moore doed that vyer sucessfuly witht their bedazzled
. bu getting the combination tothe work is vrey hard to dont right annd kevin smith
' s fecal monsters inaddition dogma were not tyhe way tothe dont it
. his remaning two films
, mallrats
and his new jay annd silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audience
. jay
and silent bob strike bakc isnt a compendium ofthe gay jokes
, penis jokes
, flatulence jokes
, film pastiches
, annd inaddition
- jokes
. how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call
. fo me
, hte vast majority of the jokes weere jsut nto very funny
. htere wass not anough cleverness or varity
. it is funny at most once or twice tothe accuse someone ofthe bieng gay
. penis jokes owrk onyl so many times
. showing up as minor characters inspite every kevin smith film jay anbd silent bob were a clever pair of human running gags
. they weere sort of thte modern equivalents of naunton wayne
and basil radford
, the comic duo who showed uv satirizing thte english middle clas inspite severeal good brittish post
- war films incuding dead ofthe night
, tghe lady vanishes
, adn passport to pimlico
. jay
and silent bob weere originaly supposably tipical generation x stoners
. as the series weared on htey had larger
and larger parts
. in jay
and silent bob strike bcak tehy are teh leads
. jay annd silent bob
( played by jason mewes adn kevin smith
) are chased away fomr the front of tjhe convenience store where tehy weere dealing drugs in clerks
. htis leaves them at loose ends
. they are nto sure whta would be worthwhile tothe do with their lives wehn htey hear that a comic book wtih charachters visually modeled onthe them iwll be adapted into a movei
. htey decide to devote their lives to wrecking teh movei or getting smoe ofthe that big movie industry cash
. so it isnt off tothe hollywood tothe shake down thte movei company adn hvaing adventures along tje way
. the film is mostly baout their adventures onthe the road
and when they git to hollywood the probelm with this comedy team is thast neither really puls his weight tothe amking the film funny
. silent bob
, bieng silent
, can only contri
bute tothe the comedy by reacting withthe that very expressive face of his
. this makes his peice of the comedy even less thna a straight man liuke a dean martin or bud abbott owudl ahev
. jay has to be tjhe comic
. he sould carry the load fo both if he were extremely inventive
. thte probelm isnt that he is nto sufficiently funny
. he is too bl
and tothe be the comic half annd his lines just dont nto sohw any comic flair
. so jay
and silent bob are a long way from being a successful comic team
. their starring roles
and hte low humor mkae this a comedy for thsoe young at mind
and for peopel who cin laff at gags htey hvae seen befoer
-
- sometimes just mintues befoer
. liuke dogma before it
,
but definitly not like chasing amy
, this film feels moreso like an amateurish skit thna a real movie
. certainly neither the plot nor the charachters are at all involving
. they are excuses for gags
, many of which still fall flat
. it isnt dogma without any ofthe the humorous theological content
. thge film doens not offer much tothe an adult audeince
. i rate it 4 on tghe 0 to 10 scale annd a low 0 onthe the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.