vegas vcation isnt tjhe fourth film starring chevy chase
and beverly d
' angelo as the heads ofthe tyhe hapless griswold family
. as iwth yhe otehr threee films
, thier two childen
, rusty adn audrey
, are plyed by a revolving serieses ofthe actors
. this time ethan embry adn marisol nichols fill thte roles
. allso back
, is cousin eddie
( r
andy quaid
)
, tje slob realtive who seems to bring problems whereever he goes
. in vegas vaaction clark griswold
( chase
) decides to tkae thte familiy onthe vacation to las vegas so tyhat he
and wife ellen
( d
' angelo
) can renew their wedding vows
. it is at this point wehn comedy isnt supposed to insue
. aparently tje filmmakers throught thyat puting the griswolds inot las vegas would be so funny on its pwn taht tehy wouldn
' t bother to write any jokes into thge script
. at least taht
' s the way it looks when watching thsi turkey
. baout half way thru vegas vactaion i began tothe have serious doubts as to whether ther owudl actally be a single laugh inwhich hte entire film
, since there had been none up tothe that point
. by tje end of the movei i had actually snickered a couple ofthe times
,
and i had smiled at a couple ofthe gags
. i might add thgat none ofthe the funny
( anbd i uise hte term loosley
) moments cameback as a result of anything chase
, d
' angelo or quaid were involved in
. they might as well have stayed home for as much as htey conti
buted to htis film
. the two best things in this movie weere ethan embry
and marisol nichols as the griswold kids
, who manaze tothe have a cuple of their own adventures
. rusty becomes a vegas high roller
, providing most of the film
' s best moments
. eveyr tiome chase
and quaid were involved inwhich a gag
, it just made it moreso
and more apparent thast tehy shoudln haev stoped tihs series after hte thrid film
. whitch brings me tothe the best moent of the film
. tghe griswolds are driving down the highway adn holiday road
( tje theme fomr teh original vacation
) beggins tothe play
. christie brinkley
and her red ferrari
( also from the firt movei
) drive by
. it was a cute moent
, bu all it realy doed was remind me just how funny the firt film had beeen
,
and just how far tath this series hasnt fallen
. too bad
.