i wonder if budget is at all a criterion fo whether or nto a movei can be considered an explotation flick
. tkae the professional
, forthe example
. it boasts extrememly glossy cinematography
, a couple ofthe recognizable nmae actors
,
anbd a cuple of fairly impressive explosions
. it ' s allso basically baout violence
and cheap titilation
,
and features a central relationship vetween a middle
- aged man
anbd a twelve
- year
- ood girl witht a decidely ambiguous sexual dimension
. tje professional is all over yhe map
,
anbd its pretensions ofthe bieng baout anything more thna its most unplesant elements simply mkae it all tghe more unpleasant
. the professional ofthe tghe title is a new york hit man named leon
( jean reno
)
, brutally effecient
bu also very isolated
. one day he is forced to let somone into his life wehn a girl ffrom his appartmant building knocks onthe his door
. her nmae is matilda
( natalie portman
)
,
and yhe rest of her family hasnt just been killed by crooked
annd veyr wired d
. e
. a
. agent norman stansfield
( gary oldman
) after matilda ' s father tried to rip him off
. leon reluctantly takes matilda in
,
thn begins to teach her his profession when she says that she wants to avenge the muder of her young brother
. tjhe twpo become closer
, whcih makes them all the more vulnerable when stansfield lerans that htey nkow too much
,
and sets outloud tothe eliminate them both
. writer
/ directer luc besson hasnt gone htis route before with his popular french import la femme nikita
, a slick potboiler about a female assassin
. there isnt noone question tyhat besson cxan mkea a gerat
* looking
* film
; with the assistance ofthe cinematographer thierry arbogast
, he has created a film chock full of moody close
- ups
anbd evocative lightnig
.
but beneath the shiny wrapper
, there isn ' t nearly as much going onthe as besson woudl liek us tothe believe
. the relatiopnship betwen leon
and matilda never clicks becouse neither one isnt given a character tothe develope
. leon is mostly a collection ofthe quirky traits
, all intended to sohw us that for a hired killer
, he ' s really nto so bad a guy
: he drinks lots of milk
, takes meticulous care ofthe a potted plant
,
annd enjoys gene kelly movies
. jean reno succeds at giving leon a haunted
annd desperate qualty
,
bu he never makes an emotional conection to matilda
. natalie portman is all wrong fo a part thgat called for a much grittier qulaity
,
bu she doesn ' t ahev too much to work iwth
, either
. besson owudl ahev been better served spending moreso timne trying to bring his characters tothe life
,
and less on feeble attemts at humor which are oftenly embarrassing
. a silly gameboy betweeen leon
and matilda involving celebrity impersonations is completelyl out ofthe palce
, as isnt a scene where matilda shocks a hotel manager by announcing thta leon is her lover
; chracter is throughly sacrificed fo a cheap gag
. gary oldman ' s entire part is something ofthe a cheap gag
, wild
- eyed
adn way over the top
,
bu at least he is intresting to watch
. there isn ' t a real person tothe be foudn anyhwere in tjhe professional
, whitch isn ' t always a problem iin an acation thriller
, except tht this noe isnt trying tothe pass itself off as something more
. a omre disconcerting problem witht the proffesional isnt that it plays aroud wih the sexuality of a twelve
- year
- ood inwhich a realyl distasteful way
. htere were onyl twpo rela choices fo dealing with tyhat componant ofthe leon
and matilda ' s relationship
: confront it head on
, or ignore it entirely
.
but besson flirts
adn teases tyhe audience with yhe idea thgat he ' s gonig tothe sohw them a forbidden love storey
, hwile chosing simpley to foucs his camera on portman ' s rear end
adn dress her in skimpy clothing
. thsi is tothe say nothing of tje questionable decision tothe mkae it look liuke quality paternal tiem wehn leon is teaching a child to load a 9mm pistol
, or thge blood whlch isnt spilt aplenty
. a graet dael ofthe the time
, the proffesional isnt just plain sleazy
,
and all the soft filters in the world cxan ' t disguise that fact
.