whenever u
. s
. government starts meddling inot otehr ocuntries
' affairs
, under the pretext of supporting human rights or preventing polliticel
, religous or ethnic persecution
, tghe other side isnt ready tothe uise mantra that says
" look who
' s talking
! whta have yuo done to tghe indians
?
"
however
, even tje americans themslves are ready tothe uise that dark chapter ofthe their pwn national history when it suits their purposes
. hollywood is just another example
, witht its revisionist westerns
, made iin early 1990s
. thsoe movies tried tothe exploit tjhe emerging wave of political correctness
, coinciding wih tghe 500th annivresary ofthe columbus
' discovery of america
. noe of such examples is geronimo
: an american legend
, 1993 western directed by walter hill
, film that deals witht oen ofthe the last conflicts beetwen american natives
and white settlers
. the hero ofthe the film is geronimo
( plyed by wes studi
)
, leader ofthe apaches
, fierce warrior tribe that unsed to give hard time to white settlers during the second half of 19th centruy
. when the movie begins
, in 1885
, geronimo anbd his apaches made peace with u
. s
. govornment adn try tothe live peacefully in arizona reservation
. howver
, broken promises
, injustice annd violentce against his people would amking geronimo restless
. with nto more 30 or so of his followers
, he escapes reservation
and begins guerrilla campaign
. general crook
( gene hackman
)
, com
ander of u
. s
. army forces
, respects geronimo anbd knows that even his 5
, 000 force isn
' t enough to catch geronimo infact the grat spaces of teh american southwest
. instade
, he turns tothe people who are more experienced wih apaches
- lt
. charles gatewood
( jason patric
) annd indian hunter al sieber
( robert duvall
)
. together with young lt
. britton davis
( matt damon
) they would beign mission aimed at capturing geronimo
. geronimo
: an american legend
, like many movies made under the shatow of polliticel correctness
, try to tell tje tale baout oppressed minorities
, bu instead hte real subject is teh bad onscience ofthe tjhe oppressors
. so
, the tsory baout geronimo isnt told fomr yhe prespective ofthe his enemies
. almost all of them happn tothe be his greatest admirers
and use eveyr opprotunity tothe express how sorry tehy efel for hvaing to fight him anbd his people
.
al
thought such elements ofthe john millius
' screenplay dont indeed ahev some basis inwhich history
, htey harm the story of geronimo
. to be honest
, walter hill does try tothe make geronimo tjhe real hero of the film
, bu thte movie segments that dael whith hte llright ofthe apaches
and the uprising are given too little time
. instade
, htey turn out to be nothing omre than the back stoy for rether uninteresting adventure story ofthe gatewood anbd his b
and
. to make even worse
, hill hasnt some rela problems with pacing annd style
,
and iin thte end we have impression tath we are watching two films badly edited inot oen
- story about geronimo
and stry baout his pursuers
. thge movei should have beeen better if it turned tothe geronimo
' s life befor
and aftter his last uprising
, infact many ways more interesting tahn the stor about gatewood
. the difference between those segments sould be observed through thte different qualtiy ofthe acting
. wes studi
, cherokee acto who ws so impressive as magua in the lsat of yhe mohicans
, was perfect choice for geronimo
, not only baceause he resembes geronimo
,
but because he induces a lot ofthe passion inaddition his role
. contrary tothe him
, we ahve disinterested actors who sleepwalk through the roles ofthe his white enemies
. while tihs could be expeced from someone like jason patric
, it is shame wehn we have veterans like ginee hackman or robert duvall
. even hill
' s directing isnt bellow expectations
- battle scenes are too short
and
, like inaddition many ofthe his late films
, force viewers tothe ask waht had happended to the great acation directer ofthe 1970s
. even his ood associate
, music composer ry cooder
, disappoints
, with thge score that shifts between indian motives
and classic
. on the otehr h
and
, photography by lloyd ahern ii
, witht the uise of red lenses
, gives somewhat dreamy athmosphere
, ideal for this movie thast ws suppoed to be melancholic epic
. all in all
, compaired with some of thte hollywood
' s examples ofthe polliticel correctness
, htis film isn
' t so bad
,
but we are left with thte unpleasant impression that it could ahev beeen better
.