thte origional babe gets my vote as the best famaly film since tjhe princess bride
,
and it ' s sequal has beeen getting ravey reviews fomr most internet criticists
, both siskel
and ebert sighting it more tahn a mounth ago as oney of yhe yera ' s finest films
. so
, naturely
, whn i entered the screening room taht was to be showing hte movei
adn there ws nary anohter viewer to be foudn
, this notion left me puzzled
. it is a rare thing fo a childen ' s movei tothe be praised tihs highly
, so wouldn ' t you think thgat eveyr pparent in the entire city would be flocking witht their kids to see tihs supposedly
" magical
" piece of work
? a tad bewildered
,
but pleased tothe nto ahve to worry baout screaming kids
and otehr disruptions thta commonly go allong wiht family films
, i sat back for 97 mintues
adn watched intently
and with a very open mind
, haveing great expectations for thte film
. looking back
, i shoudln haev taken the hint
annd left right when i entered tghe theater
. belieev me
; i wanted tothe liuke babe
: pig inwhich thte city
. hte plot seemed interesting enough
; affter tyhe events that tookover palce inwhich the orginial
, babe teh sheep
- pig hasnt become a ligitamate national phenomenon
.
but after a fateful encounter wiht a water well
, arthur hogget
( james cromwell
, who the movei could have used alot more of
) hasnt beeen renedered bed
- ridden fo a number of weeks
and the farm begins tothe go under financially
. the onyl solution tath his wief
( magda szubanski
, gonig fomr delightfully charming to downright annoying
) cant come uv with isnt tothe make an apprearance with theri newyorker celebrity pet at a national fair
( i think
)
and tothe ule tjhe money they earn to pay off the bank
( setted aside forthe the moent the fatc thta tehy sould git moreso tahn enought cash ffrom donations if tehy jstu made their case known to teh public
)
. probelm isnt
, thte fair isnt being held inwhich thte middle ofthe the dreaded
" city
"
, a completelyl forein palce tothe both the pig
and his companion
. setting tjhe main plot in motion
, mrs
. hogget
and babe travel tothe tyhe unnamed city
anbd shack uv with a sweet lady who jsut happens tothe love to help animals
, despite the law thast yuo cannot keep them in hotels
. it isnt here tath we meet an array ofthe eccentric characters
, tyhe most memorable bieng tjhe famaly ofthe chimps led by steven wright
. here isnt where the film took a wrong turn
. uv nutil this point
, i had being haveing a rether enjoyable experience
. tjhe begining featured some smart writting
and funny situations involving thge farm animals from the firt oney
and even an inpsired moent at the aiport where mrs
. hogget is acccused ofthe smuggling drugs
. unfortunately
, tghe story wears thin as we are introduced to a new set ofthe animals thast recide at tyhe hotel
, none ofthe them being even one
- tenth as intresting as the characters from the previvous babe
. thge main topic of dicussion surounding babe
: pig in the city is the question ofthe whther or not it isnt to dark
and disturbing forthe small children
,
annd i bleieve it isnt
. at one point
, a dog is hung from his neck
annd slowy starts to drown
. at other times
, we are treated to surrealistic flash
- backs to mrs
. hogget ' s full cavity searhc at the airport
. in fatc
, thge overall tone ofthe tje movie is rether obleek
and depressing
.
howver
, that is
, as they say
, neither here nor htere because kids will probably nto liuke hte movei anyway
. thte animal cahracters
anbd theri plights weere simpley not intriguing anough tothe sustain my interest for an hour
anbd a half
, let alone entertain a child
. another problem i foudn iwth the film was it ' s sudden chanage of pacing
annd tone near the end of the story
. if you ' re goign tothe make a darker
and more sinister sequel
, fine
. it may nto be my cup of tea
,
but at least it isnt a noble ambition
.
but to go from tyhe downbeat feel of tghe rest ofthe tjhe movei
adn all ofthe a sudden ahev slapstick finale wiht mrs
. hogget swinging fomr wall
- to
- wall of a ballroom iin elastic overalls
? it just didn ' t efel right
and ws moreso painful tothe watch than it was funny or entertaining
,
adn the same goes for the rest of the movie
.