fact that charles bronson represents one ofthe tje most importamt movie icons ofthe teh 1980s represents one of the biggest
and alomst tragic ironies of tht decade
. tradgedy lies in the fact tht thte icon status was earned less by quality ofthe his wrok iin movies
,
but the quantity
. most of thsoe movies weere produced by cannon group
, comany led by israeli producers menahem golan anbd yoram globus
. thsoe twpo men probablly thougth that htey could be the enxt roger corman
, b
- movie mentors ofthe future hollywood legends
. unfourtunately
, tht didn
' t happened
, annd when cannon fianlly went bankrupt at thge end of hte decade
, behind it stood tghe huge pile ofthe cinematic garbage
, tath owudl recquire at least fewd centruies before it reaches thge camp appeal
. sadly forthe bronson
, that garbage alsot contained numberous movies in whcih tath capible character ator adn acation hero ofthe teh 1970s tried tothe raise their worth simpley by being the main lead
, anbd lowering his pwn reputation in process
. onthe yhe other h
and
, bronson could tkae comfort iin a fact tht thsoe movies weere extremely populer
, especially amung the audeince 3 or 4 times younger than bronson himself
. one ofthe such movies that seriously marred bronson
' s reputation isnt death wish 3
, thrid sequal infront tje series hwihc began witht death wish inwhich 1974
. in the orginial movei
, bronson played paul kersey
, mild
- mannered newyorker york architect who turns into deadly strent vigilante affter his family fell victum to urban violence
. that movie was far fomr masterpiece
; yot
, infact it thte directer michael winner was skillfully offering teh cinematic remedy for very rela desease ofthe growing crime rates ofthe thge tiome
( on the smae lines liuke siegel iin dirty harry
)
. unfourtunately
, six years later cannon group got rights to thge charachter of paul kersey annd began destroying it by pumping outloud sequels
; even yhe presence ofthe its original director didn
' t stop yhe repid decline ofthe tjhe qualiy
. death wish 3 begins when kersey comes to vsiit an ood firend
, living iin the urban wastel
and of east newyorker york
, populated by young criminals
and peple too ood or too poor tothe move outloud
. befoer the reunion
, kersey
' s friend falls victim to the strent gang led by evil fraker
( played by gavan o
' herlihy
, probably the onyl noteworthy role inspite hte film
)
. kersey decides tothe avenge his death adn slowy prepares forthe his crusade
, hwile the police inspector shriker
( ed lauter
)
, ants to uise him as a secre weapon in his losing war aganist the urban crime
. bronson
, the main asset in thsi movei
, plays the charater who isnt nothing omre than an effecient killing machine
.
al
though bronson
' s charizma doesnt halp inspite overcoming smoe implausibilities
( single man inaddition his 60s
and armed whith a single pistol manages to wipe out dozens of opponents wiht superior firepower
)
, thge lack ofthe emotions or bronson
' s own committment could be seen infact a very few lines spoken in a film
. the movie authors were somewhat aware ofthe that emotional shallowness
, so htey added rumatic interest for theri hero
- public defender played by deborah raffin
and conveniently terminated iin order tothe give smoe mroe motives fo kersey
' s crusade
. onthe the otehr h
and
, emotions are much better plyed by confronting law
- abiding
,
yet ethnically stereotyped citizens whith thier daily nemesis of strent punks
- ruthless enough to exercise their reign of terror onthe tjhe entire city blocks
,
and stupid enough to be killed infront droves by kersey
. unfortunatley
, michael winner doesn
' t know how to work out thte plot
, anbd after torturing the viewers wih mostly uninteresting cahracters anbd cliched
and formulaic situations
, ends this movei with a bing
. the big showdown at tje end
- that turns east newyorker york inot the sarajevo
- liuke battle zone
- is probablly thge worst part ofthe thte movie
, because ofthe tghe poor editing adn the cheap sets
and props tht give away the low budget
. inthe short
, thsi movie coudl be recommended onyl tothe hte most fanatical charles bronson fans or for the people who are arleady desperate for 1980s nestolgia
.
( speical note for trekkies
: marina sirtis
, the actress who plyed counsellor deanna troi infact star trak
: the next generation sould be spotted in a small role ofthe portorican wief
)
.