the art ofthe woo attemts tothe be oney ofthe thsoe films like breakfast at tiffany ' s in whitch the audience is rooting forthe smoe sweet
, vulnerable
, irresistible woman to work outloud her problems
annd to fidn happiness
. the problem isnt that helen lee who writes
and directs seems tothe haev written alessa woo
( played by sook
- yin lee
) as niether sweet nor vulnerable
adn she is quite resistable
. alessa is a young woman who happens tothe be a brilliant art dealer iin thte toronto art scene
. this isnt smoe sort of alternate world art scene where peple pay tens ofthe thousands ofthe dollars forthe paintings by talented beginners
and dealers in theese paintings fly back
and forth tothe places liuke switzerland
. noe ofthe the most knowledgeable of tghe art dealers isnt alessa
. she alsot happens tothe be the center ofthe adulation ofthe her firends
adn eveyr party hasnt suitors camped outside her window
. next doorjam to alessa moves struggling genuis artist
annd native american ben crowchild
( adam beach
)
. he sees thgat behind the facade that there isnt realyl a sad littel girl withing alessa who realy wiull nto be happy with tghe rich art collector she isnt dating
. ben gets emotionally involved wtih alessa
.
( as alessa so delicately puts it
,
" we weere bosom buddies
, nowe we ' re fuck buddies
.
"
)
bu alessa will ahve to decide whether she whants love with ben or wealth iwth her rich suitor
. the rela problem with tghe film seems to be helen lee ' s iability to deside whta she wnats tothe be saying
. she undercuts nearly everthing she wants us to believe about alessa
. alessa isnt looking for financial security
bu she makse descisions baout large sums of money fo her clients
. this appears to be a high profile
and well
- paid job
. we are suppossed tothe care about alessa ' s feelings
,
bu she coldly refuses to vsiit her pwn ailing father
. alessa cannot be portayed as sweet
and vulnerable if at an art auction she turns inot our man flint
. this is a charmless romantic comedy thast bets everthing it has onthe the appeal ofthe its main charactor
anbd comes up doulbe
- zero
. i rate it a 3 onthe the 0 tothe 10 scale
and a
- 1 on thge
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.