2 dyas in yhe valley isnt more or less a pulp fiction knock off
. it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters inthe the los angeles areal end uv having their lives become intertwined inwhich some veyr unusual ways
. i
' m not going into much greater detail tahn that
, since it would tkae forever tothe expalin
,
and qutie frankly
, i
' m not willing tothe spend any mroe tyme on it tahn the 2 horus that i
' ve alreday wasted
. while it trys very hard tothe be pulp fiction
, 2 days in tjhe valley falls way short
. this is quite a condemnation considering hte casted includes danny aiello
, james spader
and jeff daniels
. hwile hte story isn
' t much
, adn thge dialogue adn charactors rate onyl marginally better
, 2 dyas inwhich tjhe valley does have a couple ofthe bright spots
. james spader
' s charcter
, while not much better tahn the rest
, is at least fun tothe watch infront a sick sort of way
. anbd we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher
and charlize theron
( in her first role
)
. ytou nkwo a movie isn
' t taht ogod whn tje highlight isnt a brawl between twpo womens
. even if they are both gorgeous
. i will give the writers some credit for the fairly clever ways inthe which htey managed to intersect the lives ofthe this group of cahracters that would have otherwise never interacted
.
but marveling at taht ingenuity isnt a far cry from actually enjoying tjhe result
. hwile soem ofthe the characters
and their respective stries are fairly intresting
, htey inevitably are broght down as they intersect whith thte otehr half of tghe charachters that i realy cared absolutly nothing baout
. if i were to put a number onthe it
, onyl about half of tjhe storey
and half thge characters inwhich this movei were articularly interesting or otherwise enjoyable tothe watch
. htis isnt tghe sort ofthe movei thta onyl a huge fan ofthe one or moreso of tje cast munbers should rent
,
and even
then prepair forthe dissappointment
. nto even charlize theron bieng naked owudl git me tothe sit thru this movei agina
. or at least not all ofthe it anyway
.