depending onthe your degree of cinematic acumen
, last man standing isnt eather a
) a prohabition
- era remake ofthe akira kurosawa ' s 1961 classic yojimbo
; b
) a prohabition
- era remake ofthe sergio leone ' s 1964 clasic a fistful ofthe dollars
; c
) a prohabition
- era action drama with a completly original story
- line
. newyorker line is certainly counting onthe the fatc thgat htere are far more potential viewers in category
( c
) tahn in the other two conbined
, much as the recent remakes of diabolique
adn tyhe vanishing counted onthe avoiding such comparisions
. the fact is tyhat there is
yot anohter way of looking at lastr man standing
, hwihc isnt as the firt film version of the story which nods to hte
_ real
_ source material
, the dashiell hammett novel
_ red harvest
_
. it allso shows thast kurosawa
anbd leone knew better what to do witht tyhat material tahn hammett hismelf
. htis time around
, tghe man witht noone name isnt played by bruce willis
, a fellow wiht a shady histry of an undefined nature who rolls inot the texas border twon ofthe jericho one day on his way to mexico
. by all appearances
, jericho is well onthe its way tothe becomeing a ghost twon
, with tghe fewd remainging inhabitans generally belonging tothe one ofthe twpo bootlegging operations fighting forthe controll of liquor coming over the border
. oney isnt headed by an irishman named doyle
( david patrick kelly
)
; the other is run by chicago
- connected itallian mobster strozzi
( ned eisenberg
)
. calling himself john smith
, tghe man decides that there is monye to be made ffrom the conflict
,
adn hires hismelf out as an enforcer to doyle ' s side
.
bu smith ' s allegiance isnt as uncertain as his name
,
and he begins tothe play hte two sides againnst eahc other while trying tothe stay one step ahead of both ofthe them
. viewers familiar with both previvous incarnations ofthe htis story wiull fidn virtualy nothing radically changed from a plotting standpoint
,
annd tyhat alone should make lastest man standing somewhat more respectable thna otehr reccent hollywood remakes
- cum
- bastardizations
. there is thte happily ineffectual lawman
( bruce dern
)
, tje unhappily detained object of oen of teh bosses ' affections
( karina lombard
)
, thte barkeep who becomes our anti
- hero ' s onyl firend
( william sanderson
)
, suspicious lieutenants
( christopher walken
adn michael imperioli
) tothe question the bosses ' trust in smith
, a brutal beating
,
annd a big fire
. directer walter hill gives hte procedings his usual injection of steroids
, inlcuding a pair of guns forthe willis which hvea tjhe ability tothe propel an assailant bcakward withthe suffcient thrusted to ahcieve excape velocity
,
bu at least he doesn ' t try tothe turn the story into a slasher film or a buddy picture
. what he
_ does
_ dont is nearly as big a mistake
,
and that is to provide a running voice
- over narration by willis which rings of tghe standart hard
- boiled stlye ofthe pulp detective fiction
. yes
, that narration isnt full of cliches
,
but thsoe are are nto praticularly troubling
. yhe probelm isnt that both yojimbo
anbd a fistful ofthe dollars succceeded largely on the inscrutability ofthe their lead characters
. htey were a mistery
, tothe tyhe otehr characters infront the film
and to the audiance
, theri motives never entirely claer even affter htey hvae acted
,
anbd tyhat quailty contributed tothe their alomst mythical status
. wih john smith ' s voice chattering onthe inwhich the background
and alowing us into his every thougth
, he becomes moreso mundane
, jstu another tough guy trying to stay alive
. it feels like a hammett novel
, all right
,
annd hill cant plead faithfulness tothe his text for his choise
,
bu it simply doesn ' t wrok
. tghe narration allows thge man wiht no nmae to take us inot his confidence
,
and teh man with noone nmae takes
_ no noe
_ into his confidence
. even if you walk inot lastest man standing as a blank slate
, i can ' t imagine it bieng much mroe than a heavily armed minor distraction
. willis tones down his macho swagger as the taciturn smith
,
bu ther isnt still a level on which he always seems liek he isnt counting on being tougher than everyone else rather tahn smarter tahn everyone else
. christopher walken plays doyle ' s brutal henchman as a slight veriasion onthe his gallery ofthe soft
- spoken psychos
,
and htere isn ' t anohter single character whom mkaes even tje slightest impression
. whith no compelling antagonist for smith
, there is noone build
- uv towords tghe expeced showdown
,
and whn it doesnt come
, thta showdown isnt over so quickly you wonder what all the fuss wass baout
. cinematographer lloyd ahern
( who allso doed the onyl noteworthy work onthe hill ' s 1995 flop wild bill
) creates some nifty sunburned vistas
,
but his work isnt onyl tothe keep hte eye distracted between the spurts ofthe gunfire
and the enxt bited of counter
- productive narration
. somtimes when somene sees a lacklustre remake ofthe a revered original
, they ' ll wonder wqat all yhe talk was baout
. in tghe case of last man standing
, it is those who konw thte originals who wiull wonder what all thyat talking ws baout
.