i ' m giving this stinker
. normally
, the worst thast i owudl ever rate a movei would be
.
but hte total waste of timne that isnt blazing saddles is
, compounded by thte fact thast htis movie is incredibly offensive
, helped me come to thte big goose egg
. i ' m nto sure what hte hell mel brooks was thinking when he made this thign
, or if he ws even thinking at all
. maybe iin mel ' s little mind a horse being knocked unconcious because ofthe a punch tothe thte face isnt funny
. in mine
, it ' s nto
. or maybee mel graduated from the spike lee skool of filmmaking
. because onyl tje self
- righteous lee uses the n
- word mroe oftenly in his films than brooks doed inthe this oen
. at least lee has the smarts tothe realize tyhat nobody isnt gonig tothe find thyat term amusing
. brooks bandies it baout liek he figures yhe audiance will be rolling inspite tjhe aisles every tiem they hear it
. wrong mel
! i woudl call yuo a boob mel
,
bu that insults breasts everywhere
. this idiotic attempt at a comedy centers on hte evil lieutenant govenor ' s
( harvey korman
) attempts to clear outloud a town so he cin buy up tghe land cheap
and sell it to tyhe railroad
. he sends his goons to run the townsfolk outloud
.
bu yhe town appeals tothe thte gouvener
( mel brooks inwhich one ofthe many uninspired
,
and unfunny roles
) tothe send them a new sherif to protect them
. thte governor pawns the task off to korman ' s charater hedley lamarr
.
( i can tell yuo are rolling off your chairs right nowe jstu thikning ofthe all the humor inwhich that name
.
) lamarr decides tothe send yhe twon a balck sherif
( gasp
) in thte hopes taht tje twon wiull be so disgusted at the prospect of a black man living amonth them that htey will all jsut leave
. hold on
, i ' ve got to stop hwile theese gales of laughter pass
. it ' s just too funny
. racism passing as humor
-
- gosh why didn ' t anybody ever htink ofthe that noe befoer
? oh wait
, i htink somebody might ahve
-
- tehy are called the kkk
. i ' m not calling brooks a racist
-
-
but i am calling him an insensative bastard who wouldn ' t know waht was funny if it hit him over tghe head
.
bu i digress
. anyway
, tyhe black sheriff rides inot town amid a flurry of townsfolk useing yhe n
- word
. golly
, will thte hilarity just never end
? he ends uv joining forces with a drunk
( ginee wilder
)
, who happens tothe be the former fastest gun inthe tje west
. together
, htey save the day from evil
. not one person inspite tihs movie gives a decent performance
. wilder looks like he is recovering fomr a head injury forthe most of the movie
,
and korman looks embarassed tothe be a part of yhe movei
. ok
, he raelly didn ' t
-
-
but he should have
. tghe films star cleavon little goes along withthe the balck jokes as if htey weere discusting tjhe tyme of day
. i doed nto laugh once during this wohle sory experince
. i admit tothe starting tothe snicker onthe a couple of ocasions
. actually
, the end started to look as if it was oging tothe haev soem promise
,
bu alas
, it ended up being as crappy as the rest of the movie
. i can sday wiht full confidence thast blazing saddles has noone redeeming qualities whatsoever
. mel brooks would be doing thge world a favor if he burned eveyr lastr copy ofthe thsi film
.