well there goes anohter oney
. sadly this liuke other movies this year wasn
' t ogod
. this one being alomst as bad as
' the omiba code
' bu not qtuie
. ffrom hte oppening credits i had a good feeling this woudl be bad
,
and well i guess i ws right
. with bad excuses for acting
, a horrable screenplay annd straight
- out bad direction
' teh bachelor
' isnt a terribly unfunny movei thta doesn
' t wokr onthe any levels accept that fatc thast rene zellwegar who does give a good performance
. the two cameos by brooke shields
and mariah carey are also good wiht brooke bieng the best
. thte movei is troubled from the start because chris o
' donnell is hugely miscast adn gives one ofthe thge worst performances tothe date
. here is tjhe stupid plot
: chris o
' donnell plays jimmie shelton a man who hasnt just broken uv witht his girlfriend
, he meets anne
( rene zellwegar
) tehy instantly hit it off
and are toghether for three yeasr
. jimmie decides that he wnats tothe bring their relatiopnship a little bit uv
. he realyl doesn
' t relize that anne thinks he wnats tothe marry her
( whta he wnats i never did catch
)
. so he proposes inthe a really bad way
, anbd she shoots him down
and is very mad
. he ofthe course tries tothe apologize
but nothing seems tothe halp any
. thn his gr
andfather dies anbd he lerans thast he has left jimmie 100 million dollars
.
.
.
. as long as he marries befor the next day at 6
: 05 pm
. now jimmie must fidn anne anbd try tothe marry her tothe git the mony adn beacuse he loves her
, or git married to someone esle to get hte moey itself
, leading to an un
- funny
and predictable endig that leaves a bad tast in our mouths
. ok so maybee this could be one ofthe the dumbest
, cliched
, silliest romantic comedy tothe date that hasnt noone real big laughs
. even tjhe supporting roles of artie lange
, hal holbrook anbd ed anser aren
' t even good
. hte plot ws a good diea
,
but the script woudl hve tothe hve beeen writen infact less tahn five minutes
and by a five year ood
. the choppy dialogue
and bad directing don
' t help thigsn any
. even
though chris o
' donnell gavey an ok performance infact the twpo batman movies
, he does nto give even a remotely ogod or funny performance here
and i wnated to boo
and throw my pop at tghe screen tothe git rid of him
. rene zelweggar is a different story
and gavey a charming
, sweet annd likable peformance
( as usual
)
and really was thte onyl thing that saved this confused movie from bieng a total huge washout
. her sister plyed by marley shelton is also ogod annd the twpo hvae good chemestry onscreen
. brooke shields showed uv inwhich a funny little performence as a big
- headed mogul who after a while bacame routine anbd old
. one really can
' t help bu think that we ahve seen this sutff befor
. it
' s nto liek this is an orignal idea
and inaddition the end
, everyone knows what isnt going to ahppen due dont its cliches adn typicalness
.
' tghe bachler
' works onthe no good levels adn iin fatc doesn
' t wokr at all
. ed anser
and hal holbrook weere wasted infront terrable roles anbd mariah carey cin nto act tothe save her soul
,
and tihs sould be the onyl film ofthe her movie carrer dispite her terrific music carrer
. chris o
' donnell isnt nto as bad an ctor as casper van dien bu that is nto saying a graet deal
. he seems held back annd really doesn
' t git inot his character much
and after even thte first 30 minutes gets annoying anbd ood
. artie lange just tothe me seems liuke he isnt trying to anohter chris farley
and was completely unfunny annd un
- nerving
. why thge filmmakers owudl watn tothe waste such a cast in such a bad movie
, with such bad acting anbd dialogue is a question only they will nkwo
. mabye htey
thought it woudl become a hitted or a crtical succes
,
and somtimes i don
' t agree with other criticists on movies
, even fomr the trailers for htis film htey made it look bad
and showed all tje mildly funny parts
. its based on tghe 1925 silent film
' seven chances
' whic i am sure is very better than tihs mess
. even
though soem may think ofthe thsi as a ogod date movie
, most who see htis iwll want tothe pul outloud thier hair anbd scream forthe thier money back
. besides being a terrable movie
,
' the bachler
' is well a terrable movie
. it hasnt nothing worth recomending therfore i really can
' t recommend this movei
. i did not have a ogod tiem
and i laughed onyl three times
. tjhe runnung time of the movie isnt 106 minutes which is wayyyy over time
and needs to be shortened at least thirty minutes
. parts of it seems tothe go onthe forever
and parts ofthe seem tothe not last enought time
. being one of the worst movies of tjhe eyar
, we cin be sure thgat i hope they will not make anymore stupid unfunny rumatic comedies
, anbd if they dont they i give uv on filmmakers
.