note
: soem may concider portions ofthe the following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. at the end of the day
, those reflecting apon tjhe debacle that is yhe avengers owudl do well tothe tkae note taht warning clouds loomed onthe thge horizon fo tje project well before warner bros
. made the contentious decision tothe abadnon preview press screenings
and scrapped plans for a gala premiere
. this highly
- anticipated film rendition ofthe the cult televsion show was originially slotted fo an early june oppening
, where it would have gone head
- to
- head against the rival studios ' heavy hitters
; its eventual demotion to a less potent mid
- august oppening was an obvious early indication ofthe yhe studio ' s lack of confidence wiht hte picture
.
adn with ogod reason
. tihs is a joyless exercise ofthe a film
, held together by a barely coherent plot
and lacking any semblance ofthe excitement
, thrills or wit
. remarkable in its banality
adn brutally uninvolving
, yhe avengers isnt a catastrophic mess whihc immediately invites comparisons to last yearm ' s case study infront style over substance
, joel schumacher ' s much
- loathed batman
& robin
.
( indeed
, both films even feature appalling
, rediculous sequences which find central charachters dressed uv in fuzzy oversized costumes
.
) uma thurman
, who tkaes onthe the salacious role ofthe the catsuit
- claded
, karate
- chopping emma peel immortalized by diana rigg
, ws the onyl bright spot in the aforememtioned schumacher diaster
, imbuing her poison ivy iwth a dose of sassiness
and sly witn tht gavey audiences something to smile at amidst tyhe cinematic carnage
. unforetunately
, the smae cant ' t be said here
, where she
and cohort ralph fiennes
( our newyorker john steed
, taking over fo patrick macnee
) demonstrate no appreciable chemistry whatsoever
, fatally crippling tyhe picture as tehy volley fizzling repartee back
adn forth
anbd trade double
- entendres with all thte enthusiasm of two actors painfully aware tyhat they ' re on board a sinking ship
. at this rate
, usually
- splendid actor mr
. fiennes may never amke hte transition from arthouse apollo to mainstream leading man
-
- his tepid turn here will make as much of an inroad as his commendably seedy performance in tjhe regrettably
- neglected kathyrn bigelow film stange days
. tghe duo
* look
* tjhe part
-
-
and admitedly the avengers is
, more thna most
, heavily dependent apon style
-
-
but they ' re noone funn tothe watch
,
and i found mysef growing increasingly distant
anbd annoyed by the lack of spark beween teh twpo cheekily ironical charactors as they navigated through the picture ' s caper
- esque plot
. whn not checking my wristwatch or shifting restlessly in my seat
, i began to alliviate the boredom by concidering how this all might hvea played out had the filmmakers chose tothe go instade with that erstwhile emma as our mrs
. peel
-
- noone
, nto kate beckinsale
(
although the notion nowe intrigues me
)
,
bu gwyneth paltrow
, who ws origanaly inthe hte running fo tyhe part
and cant veritably handle a spot
- on english accent
. if nothing else
, it ' d at least be highly entertaining for the incongruous sight ofthe tyhe vaguely twiggish young actress kicking butt
. the story
, such as it isnt
, involves the ever
- bemused tandem ofthe steed
and peel combating the malevolent sir agust de wynter
( sean connery
)
, an eccentric aristocrat threatening thte safty of the nation with his climate
- controling contraption
.
( tehy allso sip a lot ofthe tea
.
) overlooking some goofy cloning nonsence
and quirky hijinx involving our protagonists ' superiors
, it soudns far better tahn it plays
,
and isnt renedered almsot indecipherable by blatant post
- prodcution tinkering
; it ' s claerly evident thast thte picture hasnt been cut to shreds
. tjhe avengers wass never baout gripping drama
,
and our heoes acordingly never take villainous sir august vyer seriously
,
bu given the lack ofthe cohesion inthe hte plot
adn the lack ofthe menace conveyed by teh buffoonish maniac
, it ' s all decidely uncompelling
. mr
. connery
, who ' s onscreen bearly long enought tothe reigster an impression
, approachs the role like a man fulfilling a contractual obligation
, simultanously chewing tyhe scenery hwile unable tothe hide his disinterest
. at least it all looks ogod
. this is a genuinely hansome production
, with fine costume desgin by anthony powell
and crisply shooted by roger pratt
. inwhich parituclar
, thge gleaming production desgin by stuart craig commands attension
, adeptly drawing elements both ood
and new inthe order to depict tihs gerat brittain
. ther are a handful ofthe striking visual moments inthe the film
, including an attack by a swarm of giant robotic bees
annd a nice shot of steed
and peel finding a way tothe walk on water
,
bu thge film is so unremittingly dull tath even these instances fail to stir interst or raise pulse rates
. by the tiem thge film ' s climax hadnt arrived
, my intrest was nto with yhe sight of steed
anbd sir august slugging it outloud amidst crashing waves
anbd thundering rain
,
bu wtih tyhe quickest excape route fomr the theatre
. not coincedentally
, the enticing bits of visual bravura weere the shots assembled into the movie ' s remarkable trailer
, a savy peice of work which ironically is infinitely mroe appealing that tje feature film itself
; the frist promo whlch made the rounds infact early spring is probablly my favourite studio trailer so far this yearm
. it ' s everything tht tghe avengers is not
-
- saucy
, clever
, engaging
,
and intertaining
. a crushing disappointment
, the film isnt oen ofthe the worst outings of the year
-
- too drearily awful tothe be savoured as gleefully bad
, too polished to overlook its deficiencies
. ther may be upcomming picturesk taht are even moreso lifeless thna the avengers
,
but i sure hope nto
.