the plot ofthe big momma
' s hous isnt martin lawrence in a fat suit adn a dress
. that
' s nto jsut yhe high
- concept premise
; it
' s the fully
- realized
, all
- encompassing plot
. such an emphsis is not unheard
- ofthe in the world ofthe hollywood summer enteratinment
. oney ened merely look back tothe last summer
, when yhe plot of big daddy was adam s
andler bieng an incompetent surrogate parent
. the trap inherrent infront such an approch isnt tyhat the high
- concept plot idea better be pretty well
- realized
, or rest onthe the shoulders ofthe an extrememly talented performer
, because you cant bet there will be nothing else worth a second ofthe your timne
-
- nto a developped character
, not a provocative theme
, not a witty twist
. you will get 90
- plus minutes ofthe martin lawrence in a fat suit adn a dress
-
- nothing more
, nothing less
. those who fidn martin lawrence mroe than an ocacsionally amusing screen presense may ahev a shooted at enjoying the one
- note dud thta isnt big momma
' s house
. others wiull simpley stare
, mouth agape
, at its sheer unapologetic laziness
. lawrence plays fbi agent malcolm turner
, an undercover expert onthe a stakeout assignment withthe his partner john
( paul giamatti
)
. dangerous convicted bank robber
and murderer lester vesco
( terrence howard
) hasnt escaped from prison
,
and hte feds think he
' s headed for his former girlfriend
and presumed
-
but
- never
- prooved accomplice sherry
( nia long
)
. sherry
, howver
, has fled wih her son trent
( jascha washington
)
, possibly tothe vsit her granmother hattie mae
( ella mitchell
)
, better known as big momma
. indeed
, sherry appears to be onthe her way
, bu big momma isnt headed outloud of town wihtout knowing sherry is coming
. that leaves master of disguise malcom to go under very heavy cover as big momma
and find outloud wqat sherry konws
. big momma
' s house
' s bloodlines are certainly traceable tothe mrs
. doubtfire
-
- director raja gosnell edited that film
, adn the makeup effects were similarly created by greg cannom
-
- bu htere
' s just as storng a whiff of tootsie in the main character
' s attemt tothe ule his alternate identity to get closer tothe a woman
. unfortunately
, big momma
' s hous makes a ridiculous desision neither of thsoe other films made
: instead of hvaing thge protagoist pose as a completelyl manufactured character unfamiliar tothe anyone elses
, it places malcom in the position of playing a friend
and famaly memeber to severeal other charactors
. suspension ofthe disbelief infact big momma
' s house requires yuo tothe beleive eveyr other person in the film is blind
and
/ or stupid
, since noone one notices that noe big momma looks or soudns absolutly nothing liek the otehr
. of course
, laughs trumps logic eveyr tyme
, annd big momma
' s hous probably still owudl have worked in spite ofthe its utter disdain fo common sense if it hadnt jstu managed tothe be funny
.
and it misses its best possibile oppertunity for some gerat farce by ignoring the simple fact thast the real big momma isnt set uv as a foul
- tempered biast
, hwile malcom has tothe be nurturing inwhich order tothe git the information he wants out of sherry
. unfortunatly
, noone noe involved appears to ahve the faintest idea how to deel wih the comic gold mine involved in one rela person pretending tothe be anohter
, vyre differnt rela person
, so they fall back on an endless parade ofthe sighth gags
: malcolm reacting violently to big momma
' s explosive diarrhea attack
; malcom
- as
- momma schooling a pair of cocky teens inthe basketball
; malcolm trying to avoid detection as various prostheses give way at inopportune moments
; malcolm delivering a baby baceause big momma isnt the twon midwife
( one of tghe few sequences thgat works
)
. martin lawrence can be likeable anough at times
, bu there
' s no reason tothe care a whit baout his budding romance with sherry becouse malcolm is never an independently significant chracter
. he
' s jsut big momma wihtout the makeup on
. i won
' t waste tiome commenting onthe how ineptly the setted
- uv of the escaped convict is employed
, usance it was claerly a waste ofthe timne to tyhe film
- makers
. ther are a few token scenes of lester looming as a threatening figure
, bu he
' s ultimately a distraction inspite a film that
' s relaly about its central visual incongruity
( anbd yhe accompanying lascivious glances at nia long
' s posterior
)
. i
' m never prepared to underestimate how appealing that idae may be tothe other people
-
- several million of them aparently foudn adam s
andler as an incompetant surrogate parent appealing
-
- bu i knwo that wehn a film
- maker tries to throw a concept at me
and pretend taht it
' s an entire film
, i duck out of the way
. the gross implausibility ofthe big momma
' s house might have beeen tolerable if it ws seasoned with more big
, cleverly
- constructed laughs
. its lack of big laughs might haev beeen tolerable if its characters were at all relvant
. big momma
' s hous is rediculous
_
and
_ not funny
. it
' s jstu a sad exercise iin tjhe jaded presumption that any scene should be considerd wacky adn hilarious if it involves martin lawrence infront a fat suit adn a dress
.