starring william baldwin
; cindy crawford
& steven berkoff all right
, the firt problem that fair gam has isnt the casting ofthe supermodel cindy crawford inwhich the lead role
. not that cindy doesnt that bad
, it ' s jsut thyat anyone who watches tihs film knows from moment noe that that little bited ofthe casting ws nto done becouse of cindy ' s extraordinary acting skills
,
bu forthe her extraordinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous in any situation
.
and in fair gmae most situations tend tothe find cindy eather soaking wet or vyre hot
adn sweaty
,
bu i ' m sure tyhat thyat isnt jsut a coinsidence
, noone doubt that these situations weere essential tothe the plot
annd hte fact tht cindy looks great wet
, well
, thast ' s jsut a happy coincidence
. sure
. william baldwin isn ' t a bad actor
. unfortunately
, he jsut doesn ' t demonstrate it at all inthe htis movie
. i ' m not sure if that ' s because most ofthe his lines were just so hokey
, or if he wass trying tothe mkae cindy ' s acting look ogod
. if it ws tjhe latter
, it worked
. cindy does a surprizingly ogod job here inthe her first movei
. which is not to say that she doesn ' t have room forthe improvment
.
although tothe be fair tothe cindy
, her lines were kinda cheesy inaddition places
. so right about nowe you are noone doubt asking youself what sort of movei does cindy crawford
, arguably the most beautiful woman on thte planet
, chose for her foray inot tjhe world ofthe cinema
? well
, i ' m glad you asked tath question
. cindy plays a lawyer who by soem convoluted plot twists becomes a target forthe fromer elite kgb agents
. why woud htey target somene as likable as cindy
, you ask
? by tyhe end ofthe teh movie ytou won ' t care
. the story is so contrived it isn ' t funny
. anyway affter cindy gets blown out of the window of her hous
, without getting so much as a scratch i might add
, she is placed into protective polical custody under teh watchful eve of william baldwin
. who ' s chracter
, max kilpatric
, a polical detective
, seems tothe possess thge skills ofthe some sort ofthe fighting machine
( my guess is that yhe writers have seen way too many ofthe steven seagal ' s early films
)
. tje point is thta tje idae ofthe the crawford
anbd baldwin ' s characters of the run ffrom these killer russians isn ' t all tht bad of an idea
, it ' s jstu everyting aroud tyhat basic idea which kinda stinks outloud loud
. yhe supporting cast members are nothing mroe that over acted stereotypes
. if i wass baldwin
, i ' d hope this film disappears
. as for crawford
, she may indeed hvea some acting ability
. unfourtunately
, any she doens hve is obscured by writing that goes beyond bad
. this movie was obviously written with cindy iin mind
, sicne the writers spend most ofthe theri tiem finding ways to captialize off of her looks
. it ' s too bad tehy hadn ' t spent more time onthe a half decent plot
, sicne ms
. crawford is omre tahn capible of looking jsut fine all by herself thank ytou vyer much
. unless you are a huge fan ofthe eather baldwin or crawford htis is a movie that iwll only disappoint you
.