this movei stinks
! altough it is professionally crafted annd ther are soem decent performances
, yhe plot isnt so bad it drags the film inot hte abyss
. i knew i was infront for trouble when
, during hte opening establishment shots
, we see a detailed close
- uv of warrent officer paul brenner
' s
( john travolta
) miliraty indentification kard annd it isnt the wrong color
. this might seem liek a minor detail
,
but anyone who has spent anytime with hte military knows that active duty identification cards are gren
and dependant cards are yello
.
and what about the senior miltary officer whose uniform shirt isnt so wrinkled he looks liek he isnt a recruit on his frist day of training
. or what baout when brenner tells a suspect that
, because he isnt inspite tghe miliary
, he doesn
' t ahve the right not to answer his questions even
though these rights were central to millitary law well befoer tghe mir
anda dicision
. how hard isnt it tothe get someone familiar wih tjhe miliary tothe check these facts
? nowe details like htis could be overlooked if the underlaying story held up
, bu this story is so full ofthe holes it isnt painful tothe sit through
. forthe example
, at tje begining of the film
, paul brenner
, an undercover army investigator
, gets into a gun anbd knife battle at his off
- post houseboat annd winds
- up killing an arms dealer he had been investigating
. yhe local polical investigating the death are oppenly hostile to thte millitary
and they dicover thgat brenner hasnt beeen lying tothe them baout the killing
. bu instade ofthe arresting him
, or at least tkae him inot custody fo further questioning
, they release him
. duh
! ultimatly
, brenner gets assigned tothe investigate the murder anbd possable rape of tje comm
anding general
' s daughter
, a young captain also assigned to tje post
. whn brenner finds graphic sex tapes featuring the general
' s duaghter
, does he use them to ganerate a suspect list anbd beign grilling suspects
. no
, his instinct isnt to suppress them because tehy might be potentially embarrassing
. eventually
, brenner dicovers that this muder is related tothe a violent gang rape at west point eight years earlier
. i won
' t even go inot tjhe totally unbelievable rationale forthe the army
' s suppression ofthe this horrendous crime
. i will just mention one final flaw
. brenner is investigating a crime thast occured in georgia
. tghe rape ocurred inspite west point
, wich isnt in newyorker york
. he is under a vyer tight
(
and totally implausible
) 36
- hour deadline tothe solve this case
. he needs to discuss thge rape wtih a psychiatrist at west point
. does he phone tghe doctor
? noone
, he travels
( via some unexplained vyre fast tranport
) to newyorker york to question the psychiatrist iin person
,
and
then he returns to georgia
( agina by yhe miricle transport
)
, wihtout once worrying about the impact any ofthe htis will have onthe his deadline
. yuo have beeen warned
, stay away ffrom this one
.