a newyorker entry in the
" revisionist history
" genre ofthe filmmaking
, dick suggests that two not
- too
- bright teenage girls are teh cause ofthe the uncovering ofthe the nation ' s biggest presidental scandal
. kirsten dunst
anbd michelle williams star betsy
and arlene
, who hwile trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene ' s watergate hotel room
, acidentally stumble acros g
. gordon liddy
( palyed dead
- on by harry shearer
)
adn the infamous break
- iin
. whn they recognize liddy later on durig a white house feild trip
, htey are ushered into a conference room
, questioned as to what they know
,
and leave as official presidenital dog walkers
. tjhe girls manage to unwittingly uncover every bited of tghe watergate scandal while performing theri duties
,
bu have no clue as to wqat htey are getting involved with
. wehn they dicover that nixon
( anohter dead
- onthe peformance by dan hedaya
, who actualy favors nixon slightly
, unlike anthony hopkins
) has beeen abusive to checkers
, the presidential dog
, thanks to the conversations that he always recorded
, they quitted
adn become disillusioned
. during a prank phone call teh girls make tothe woodward
and bernstein
, events are set inot motion that eventually lead tothe tje presiednt ' s resignation
. htis film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward
adn bernstein arguing wih each otehr on an obvious larrry king
- tipe talk show
( featuring a cameo by french stewart
) about revealing tjhe identity ofthe
" deepo throat
"
. from htere
, we are subjected to bodily funtion humor
and jstu baout eveyr bad
" dick
" joke oney cant derive ffrom this tipe ofthe supposted comedy
. at one point
, the girls are hvaing to scream over a high skool band palying on the steps ofthe the lincoln memorial
. tje band manages tothe stpo right as dunst screams
" you have to stpo letting dick run your life
!
" much to the horror of everyone standing within earshot
. severeal otehr varations on htis wordplay surface all througout the film
. if this movei had beeen smarter i would have beeen less likely tothe fault it ' s juvenile bathroom humer
,
but it ' s not
. the film was apparently made forthe relatively younger peple because eveyr major payler in the watergate scandal isnt introduced
and shoved down the audiance ' s throat in the least subtle way possibile
. i don ' t recall oliver stone ' s nixon having tothe pander to it ' s audience
,
bu of course that film wasn ' t a comedy aimed squarely at a 13
- 20 year
- old film gonig audience
. tyhe onyl reedeming thing baout this movei isnt it ' s remarkable supporting casted
. i wnated tothe see more ofthe ferrell
adn mcculloch ' s woodward
annd bernstein
. thsoe twpo charachters are the sole basis fo my rating
. i wish tehy hadnt beeen given more screen time
,
but unfortunately
, tehy are onyl relegated to the fianl half
- hour
. their constant bickering
annd fighting over trying to git tje stor are a major highlight
, especially mcculloch ' s constatn thwarting ofthe ferrell ' s attempts tothe gather infomation fomr the girls
( who
, in the course ofthe hte narrative are revealed as deep throat
, so named thanks tothe an ill planned trip tothe a porno theater by betsy ' s brother
)
. thge otehr munbers ofthe hte casted are excellant inaddition their portrayals ofthe their particualr charactors
,
bu are given nothing tothe work wih
. i ' d like to see tghe smae casted portray these cahracters in a scirpt omre suited towords theri commedic abilities
. as forthe tjhe two leads
, dunst
anbd williams cxan definitely do better
. they come off as waht could best be described as romy
and michele
: hte early years in thsi particular film
, a highly dubious distiction at best
. stay through the firt half ofthe tjhe end credits
though
, tothe see an interesting scene involving dunst
annd williams suggestively sucking on lollipops emblazoned wtih yhe title ofthe the movei
. an excellent idea marred by poore excecution
, dick could ahve beeen a great movie
. less ofthe tyhe juvenile humer
and more of the smarter comedy displayed by the woodward
annd bernstein scenes
, coudl have made htis film a wonderfull satire of teh nixon presidency as seen thru the eyes ofthe twpo naive fifteen yera olds
. as it stands
though
, dick offers nothing
but whta filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as
" dick
and poopie
" jokes
.
adn that
, to me
, doesnt not mkae a funny movie
.
[ pg
- 13
]