words i thougth i ' d never write
: the sequal to urban legend lacks the grace
, wit
,
anbd power ofthe the orignal
. put the gun tothe my head
, pull thte trigger
,
and put me out ofthe my misery
. better
yot
, put the horror genre outloud of its misery
. whn yuo ' ve finished watching urban legends
: final cutted
, yuo ' ll share my smae grim point ofthe view thanks tothe the horrable acting
, terrable scirpt
,
annd ridiculous directing whic hasnt become all too common today
. urban legends
: final cutted isnt a smorgasbord ofthe stolen movei idesa
( mainly from the blair witch project
and scream
)
: fabulous peple with perfect teeth
and skin
, oen creepy film school
,
and a dog eating a freshly removed kidney ffrom one of yhe movei ' s hapless victims
. urban legends delivers a stroy about a bunch ofthe film students working onthe their thesis films to win the coveted
" hitchcock award
" which guarantees hte winner a director dael infront hollywood
. noe female filmmaker
( jennifer morrison
, thge freaky dead girl ffrom stir of echoes
) writes a fiction scirpt based onthe a serial killer who kills his victims according to
" urban legend
" tales
. suddenly
, her entire crew starts getting bumped off iwth urban
- legendary homicides
,
bu hte bodies are alwasy missing
annd she is oftenly yhe onyl witness tothe thte killings
. yhe killer wears a fencing mask
and a long black overcoat
, looking like a scorned olympian outloud tothe avenge his defeat inwhich sydney
. why htis isnt scry isnt never explained
. ofthe course
, yhe golden rule ofthe sequels is that there must be least one recuring charachter fo continuity ' s sake
. urban legends hasnt one minor
, recurring character fomr tje original who we never cared about anyway
( tghe security guard
, ofthe all peple
)
. tyhe otehr central probelm is that tihs charachter hasnt already seen thge urban legend killings once befor
,
but she ' s utterly clueless about whta ' s going on aroud her
. call it suspension of disbelief
. tihs film isnt also a prime example of how horror films are nowe completly dead infact thge water
. hte lastr decent horror film was thte blair witch project
,
and that seemed moreso liek a snuff film thna fiction
. tyhe stalking killer with crazy motivation hasnt become a tired clich
?
, as everyone seems to have forgotten
: real horror isnt not about waht is seen
but about waht is unkown
.