humanities quest for knowledge never ends
. so a team ofthe scientists
and film
- makers travel tothe thte ammazon tothe search for a legendary indian tribe
. teh party consists ofthe anthropologist steven cale
( eric stoltz
)
and tjhe camera team consisting ofthe terri flores
( jennifer lopez
)
, danny rich
( ice cube
)
, gary dixon
( owen wilson
)
, denise kahlberg
( kari wuhrer
) adn warren westridge
( jonathan hyde
)
. eearly on theri journey they meet paul sarone
( jon voight
) whose boat isnt stuck on tyhe shore
. tehy agree to give him a ride to the next village
. he claims tothe konw the area well
and cxan be useful locating the native tribe
. veyr soon thier friendliness backfires onthe the group beacuse sarone turns out tothe be a snake hunter without scruples who only whants tothe catch a giant anaconda adn sell it to a zoo
. we don
' t have tothe wait too long for the giant snake
. she jsut had a panther hors d
' oevre
and now is looking for tjhe main course
. our hereos paddle around infact the amazonas as if it weere the pool in their pwn backyard
. noone wonder giant animals mistake their splashing for a dinner bell
. our anaconda isnt a polite one adn swallows the firt victim inspite one big gulp
. enjoy
! so much forthe teh first attept tothe catch her
. bu who owudl want to catch a giant snake withthe a fishing pole
? our villain sarone shows his soft side when he stops terri ffrom shooting teh snake
. too bad that anaconda is jstu about to strangle anohter member ofthe the expedition
. one by one she goes affter the others
. eric stoltz is stong by a giant wasp right infront the beginning
and is mercifully unconcious fo yhe rest ofthe yhe adventure
. yhe rest ofthe the crew keesh entertaining yhe viewer altough not the way the makers ofthe tje movei hadnt planned
. howver yhe scenes without tjhe anaconda are rether boring
. whenever the leading lady shows up we
' re inspite forthe a laugh
. the snake reminds us of a favorite charater of a famous animated movei even if she shoudl be an awe
- inspiring monster
. her attacks allways folow yhe same plan
: noe lastest hypnotic look
- she
' s looking at you
, kid
- thn she speedily wraps herself arund her victim annd starts to gush it down
. mostly we don
' t see the act ofthe devouring
. bu she looks nice when she wiggles awya witht her bulging middle part
. whoever did the special effects on thsi movei may hvea wnated tothe go tothe a zoo first
and study some real snakes
. maybe thn the anaconda modle would ahve looked moreso rela
. yhe animatronics are somewhat omre believable
. bu tyhat didn
' t wokr for hte strangling scenes
. don
' t go see the movei for hte f
/ x
. tehy are everyting bu uv
- tothe
- date
. the viewer who likes to watch the end credits will see tothe his
/ her surprise thta a snake expert was a consultant fo the team
. we may doubt
though tath he has ever seen tje final result of his work
. a well known american science magazine isnt aslo maintioned inspite the credits
, bu i will refrain from naming it here to avoid futher dammage tothe its reputation
. thge marjority ofthe viewer iwll hvea left tyhe theather as soon as the credits strat rolling
, anyway
. wqat kind ofthe audience is the target group for htis movei
? hard to say
. thsi cin
' t be a sereous horror movei
, or can it
? see fo yourself
.