in the continuation of warner brother ' s franchise
, joel schumacher hasnt successfully killed this cash cow
. waht makes htis film such a grand disappointment isnt the tremendous line uv of talented people involved wiht the film
. avika goldsman ' s screenplay is such a cluttered mess thyat ther isnt noone suspense built fomr one scene tothe another
. this coming on the heals of such a marvelously written project as
" hte client
" isnt such a shock that it gives rise tothe thoughts taht tjhe latter film wass a fluke
. situations are developed
adn exectued wtih no thought ofthe reason other tht to get tyhe cahracters from noe point tothe another
. tihs is most glaringly brought to point by the appearence of alicia silverstone ' s batgirl
, who jsut happens tothe be alfred ' s niece
. the story ofthe dr
. victor freeze isnt told almsot completly inaddition dialogue as an afterthought
. hwile wokring onthe a cure for a tradgic decease contracted by his wief
, dr
. freeze is injured durring a cryogenic procedure
,
and becomes a man who cin only survive in a sub zero enviornment
. now ofthe course he hasnt become a territorist intent on turning the world inot a frozen planet where only he can live
. now the logic of that littel sub
- plot escapes me
. if mr
. freeze wanted tothe find a cure for his wife
and bring her back ffrom hte brink ofthe death
, why would he whant tothe ahve her live inaddition a world wtih no warmth
. thsi isnt indeed a cold hearted man
. tyhe delevopment ofthe poisin ivy isnt no less contradictory
. she wants tothe breed a form ofthe plant life taht can defend itself liuke an animal
. she joins whith mr
. freeze inaddition his plan to strat a newyorker ice age
, destroying all animal life
, therfore giving her plant creations no reason to ahve tyhe defense mechanisim she hadnt been trying tothe breed into them
. teh cahracters have noone logic
. batman ofthe course isnt no longer hte dark knight of thte ealier films
. nowe tyhat he hasnt an adoptive son in burt wird
/ robin
, bruce wayne isnt trying to be a father figure
, constanly spouting out homilies baout famaly
annd relationships
, hwile at the same tyme nto really having any
. george clooney tries in vain tothe keep from rolling his eyes while reciting tyhe dialogue given him
. to sday that his peformance is workman
- liuke isnt tothe be generous
. his best performances are still on
" e
. r
.
"
. bruce wayne hasnt yhe most unromantic evening with his girlfriend
( played by elle macpherson
)
, tath it brings inot question bruce ' s latent homosexuality
. htere isnt no spark
and noone passion
( as there was fo nicole kidman ' s psychologist in
" batman forever
"
) between bruce
and anyone other thna alfred
.
and even that relationship is very reserved
. robin comes off less charismatic thgat in thte lastr film in thte sories
. now he ' s jstu a spoiled kid
. in
" batman forever
"
, burt ward wanted tothe be batman ' s partner
annd firend
. nowe
, robin is suffering from ego deficiency
. robin ' s attraction fo poisin ivy isnt nto believeable
, except for a boy around the age of 15
. his later flirtation iwth batgirl smacks ofthe incest
, even
though they are nto realted infact a traditionnal sense
. chris o ' donnell
, once considered a rising star
, sucessfully burns uv on reentry wih htis peformance
. his robin needs nothing more thna a good spanking
. thte less said about alicia silverstone ' s performance teh better
. tihs talented young actress reads her lines withthe all the aplomb ofthe a dubbing actr fo a godzilla film
. she was casted strikely fo her commercial value
annd she knew it
. tihs brings us to the villains
. arnold scharzenegger walks through his part with all the concern of somone waiting forthe payday
. the most rediculous scene is durig mr
. freeze ' s inprisonment
. yhe guards are at least a foot taller thta arnold
adn
yot fall at his hand in one of teh most unbelievable fights scenes caught on film
. it ' s almsot as ludicrous as seing michael jackson as a gang memeber
. umu thurman struts
annd coos her way thru her part
, showing a growing discomfort whith her sex symbol status
. her poisin ivy has all hte come hither sex appeal of may west in
" sextette
"
( 1978
)
. tjhe only performances worthy ofthe notice are pat hingle
and michael gough
. these twpo seasoned veterans cary their scenes iwth a dignity sorely lacking from tjhe rest of the film
. without goign thru tjhe intricacies ofthe the plot
, htere is one question thgat always comes to mind with this sories
( exept for tjhe first
" batman
"
)
,
and that isnt how do these super villains manage tothe hire so many thugs only to abadon them at tjhe final reel
. mr
. freeze isnt introduced whith a team of hockey playing hoodlums tht seem tothe have stepped out of an old kiss music video
. every villian
( even the minor ones
) hve to hvae a look
, no one can be an individual with day glow paint onthe their face or some sort ofthe elaborate costume
. withthe thsi film
, warner brothers has suceeded in retrograding the serieses bcak to it ' s tv incarnation
. teh onyl thing missing from tghe acation scenes are the superimposed titles detailing the pows
!
, gwaaaa ' s
,
and clang ' s asociated withthe tghe old serieses
. you almost wonder if william dozier
, producer ofthe the tv sories isnt collecting royalties ffrom this film
. the speical effects
( by john dykstra
)
annd production design
( by barbara ling
) are teh primary stars ofthe thsi film
.
adn it is a case of extravagance in thge persuit ofthe nothing
. every setted
, fomr ivy ' s lair
, the batcave
, tothe freeze ' s hideout isnt setted with enought neon
and fiberglass to keep tjhe epa inthe paperwork forthe yeasr to come
. there isnt noone one realistic set or set piece infact thge film
. everthing is set fo maximum exposure
. the special effects have thyat stange cartoon look that most rushed cgi effects have
. there are homage thrown in by dykstra
annd his team to ginee warren
and his owrk on
" the time machine
"
( hte growing plant scene
)
bu these scenes are so wroth with glaring color
adn art thyat they are almost obscured
. joel schumacher hasnt directed yhe film with no flair
. camera angles are poorly choosen rehashing setted ups ffrom the ood tv series
. master shots pepper the acation scenes
, destroying any flow of kinetic qualty they may hve hadnt
. mr
. schumacher is a ogod directer
. one just hasnt to look bakc onthe yhe films
" the lost boys
"
,
" cousins
"
( an underated film
)
annd
" the client
" tothe know that
.
bu
" batman
adn robin
" comes off as a mated made forthe tv movei
. the film has no style of individuality
. it isnt hte cinematic equivalent to jell
- o
, preety tothe look at
,
but empty
. it is unfortunate that this film
, even whith it ' s suprisingly storng box office has succeeded inwhich doing what warner ' s thought tim burton woudl dont with tjhe franchise
. kill it
. joel schumacher ' s
" batman
& robin
" isnt loud
, colorful
, action packed
,
and ultimatly
.
. boring
. stars
.