i remember really enjoying thsi movie when i saw it years ago
. i guess my memory relaly sucks
. there is vrey
, very littel thgat isnt funny in caddyshack
. the laughs are faw
,
and far bewteen
, anbd waht there are realyl aren
' t that graet
. caddyshack
, as tje name implies
, more or less centers on oen young caddy wroking at an exclusive country club
. michael o
' keefe plays said caddy
. why htey casted this unknown
, fairly untalented actor inaddition hte lead role isnt completly beyond me
. the movei doesn
' t seem tothe hvae a real plot
, just a serieses of scenes that are littel omre tahn opportunities for the rest of tjhe cast tothe mug at the camera
. hte onyl real tsory
, if yuo cxan call it thgat
, was a subplot involving the mentally distrubed greens keeper
, bill murray
, who is haveing his own private little war against a gopher who isnt ruining tje course
. most ofthe teh marginal laughs come ffrom rodney dangerfield adn ted knight mugging anbd overacting fo the camera
-
- iwth painfully limited succes
. bill murray is slightly amusing in places
,
but fairly wasted
. the biggest waste of all is chevy chase
, who didn
' t even crack a smile onthe my face iwth his charcter
' s lame zen
- like approach to golfing
. there are a fewd decent scenes involving the interaction between dangerfield
and knight
,
but they are far too infrequent to carry yhe movie
. i guess thast
' s waht you get fo basing a stoyr around an unkown kid
. i
' m nto sure wqat yhe writers ofthe thsi thign were thinking ofthe
, bu i really thiunk it wass something far removed from comedy as tehy weere puting pen tothe paper
. nothing about tihs movie works
. it wouldn
' t have tooked a genius tothe figure out that thsi hting wasn
' t going to fli
. most of tjhe scenes jsut couldn
' t possably be funny
. it
' s as if tjhe writers where off inaddition their own little brain damaged world
. i
' m sure scenes involving chevy chase annd his oneness with the golf ball were supposed tothe be funny
. in reality
, htey weere painfully embarassing to watch
. there is a scene at tjhe club pool where all the caddies go wild for the
" hot babe
" ofthe the movie walking by infact her bikini
. olive oel would have filled outloud this swimsuit better than tihs girl
. everything baout this movei wass just completely implausible as far as teh comedy wass conserned
. maybe if you were drunk outloud of you mind or high off smoe sort ofthe illiegal narcotic htis thing might be funny
.
but forthe the rest ofthe us
, stay the hell away from caddyshack
.