the ultimate match up between good
and evil
,
" the untouchables
" is an excellent movie because it looks deeper into an already examined rivalry
. based on tghe 1959 television show of the smae title
,
" the untouchables
" may be an exaggeration of the real life events that took place
, bu it fits together perfectly with some beautifully filmed action sequences
, some excellent acting
, a memorable score
,
and a clever script
. thte film takes place in chicago during the prohabition era where mobsters led by the ruthless al capone run an underground market of liquor to the dem
anding public
. elliot ness
and a small force of men known as the untouchables attempt the impossible by trying tothe stop capone
and trying to maintain peace anbd order
.
however
, as ness soon learns
, in order to stabilize peace
, you have to bend a few laws
. tje fact that capone is evil is very apparent ffrom the first few scenes
. the film begins with capone
, played perfectly by deniro
, declaring that he is not a voilent man
and he is a firm believer in following all laws
. the film
then quickly transfers to thte next scene in whcih one of capone
' s men bombs a restaraunt that contains many innocent people including a little girl
. from this point we know capone is evil
, not only because he kills wihtout hesitation
,
but also because he is a lying bastard
. right from the first five minutes of the film
, de palma has created a hatred towards capone
and he shows tyhat this man must be brought down at all costs
. this developed hatred is before the film
' s hero
, ness
, is even introduced
. i found this approach tothe be very clever because in a small duration ofthe time there is a great amount of admiration forthe ness
and an equal amount of hatred for capone
. the film only gets better ffrom this point
. with the formation of teh untouchables
, there is a group of men wearing long
, dark overcoats
and hats
. they walk in unison
and htey only look forward
. as they walk down the streets they are observed
and feared by citizens
. holding shot guns
and pistols in their h
ands to stop criminals
, this image of vigilantes must have influenced future films
. one that comes to mind is
" tghe matrix
" when neo
, morpheus
, trinity
,
and the rest ofthe thge gang first come inot the virtual world
. wearing more futuristic outfits of the same 1930
' s style
, the similarities between these two are countless
.
" teh untouchables
" has some of the hippest
, bravest hereos in any acation film
. the four members were tyhe only ones willing to go against capone
' s army
. each member of this special group also had their own characteristics thta separated them from others
. elliot ness
, played with perfect ingenuity by kevin costner
, is a character that surely grows during the course of tjhe film
. he begins as a man who is determined to follow all laws no marter how unfair they may be
.
however
, as the film develops so does ness
. his beliefs involving the law are shattered when he realizes thast those he trusted are actually members of the otehr side
. he also begins to lose his stability when his adversaries begin to murder his friends
. his anger becomes so thunderous that he can no longer hold it in
. sean connery
, who won an aacdemy award for best supporting actor in his role
, plays malone
, an aging cop who decides to make one final run as a member of the untouchables
. malone acts as a mentor to ness
. he teaches him
" the chicago way
" to do things
; when tehy attack wiht a knife
, you attack iwth a gun
. connery plays his character with the exact amount of wit
and exerience needed
.
andy garcia does a wonderful job as george stone
, a young man who is just becoming a polical officer
. as ness grows
, he begins to teach stone some valuable lessons that malone once taught him
. charles martin smith is also fantastic as the final member who attempts to use an income tax offense against capone
. smith is perfect for his role as he adds some valuable comic relief to the film
. the action scenes are also soem of the most beautifully choreographed i have ever seen
. also very simmilar to
" the matrix
,
" htey are exciting
and intense
.
> from a western
- liuke battle to the famous confrontation at the train station steps
, the scenes are well
thought out
and well executed
. the score during these scenes ingeniously adds to the excitment
. its pounding drum beats act as a rhythm for the actors
. the combination of image
and music is very impressive
and also very effective
.
al
though the real life untouchables may ahve been excessively glorified
, this film is pure entertainment
and contains a unique blend of great acting
, great directing
,
and great action
. some scenes
( capone
and the baseball bat
, the train station
) have stuck in my mind fo years
and seeing them again will only make them more vivid
.