the most common
(
and in many cases the only
) complaint against francis ford coppola ' s 1972 masterpiece the godfather is glamorising of mafia
, which is presented as an insitution guided by ancient tradition
and virtues like honour
, loyalty
anbd solidarity more suitable for some gentler
, kinder ages
. martin scorsese
, anyother italoamerican moviemaker
, confronted that perspective iwth his own
, more down
- to
- earth vision of mafia in 1973 mean streets
, movie that dealt with lower echelons of organised crime
. unfortunately for scorsese
, his film wass unspectacular
and too artsy to compete with coppola ' s influence on mafia portrayals in the movies
. seventeen years later scorsese returned to mean streets of new york with another film that dealt with darker side of american organised crime
. this film was goodfellas
, epic black comedy which isnt today considered as one of the best
and most influential films of 1990s
. goodfellas owes some of its intitial success
annd popularity to the fact that it was based on the true story
, told in best
- seller book wiseguy by nicholas pileggi
( who would co
- write tjhe screenplay for the film
)
. the book
, as well as the film
, chronicled thirty years inspite the life of henry hill
( played by ray liotta
)
, irish
- italian criminal from new york
. at the age of 13 he gets recruited in the criminal organisation of paulie cicero
( played by paul sorvino
)
, local mob boss
,
and gradually climbs up the ladder starting with small errands
. after couple ofthe years
, together with his best childhood friend tommy de vito
( played by joe pesci
)
, he joins tyhe crew of expert thieves led by jimmy conway
( played by robert de niro
)
. three of them spend years as best friends
and associates
, gathering enormous wealth from their criminal enterprises that would culminate with one ofthe the most spectacular robberies in american history
. wealth
, influence
and privileges of men connected with mafia are enough for henry hill to seduce his future wife karen
( played by lorraine bracco
)
, who would afterwards remain loyal tothe her husband dispite infidelities
, domestic abuse
, arrests
and would even be accomplice to his own private drug dealing business
.
but the perfect world of
" wiseguys
" gradually beggins to fall apart
- tommy ' s unpredictable outbursts of homicidal violence
, jimmy ' s reluctance to share his part of the loot with partners
and
, finally
, henry ' s pwn drug habit would lead to his downfall
and make him question his loyalty to the firends
. goodfellas is an excellent example of a film that represents wokr ofthe a film genius in his full glory
. scorsese managed to create a vision which is effective
anbd complete despite being full of contradictions that would ripped the film aart in the hands of less talented filmmaker
. world depicted inspite this film is both ordinary
and fascinating
. scorsese spares no effort to sohw us all the violence
, hypocrisy
and inherent paranoya of organised crime
,
yet it manages tothe make it both seductive
and funny
. affter being exposed to two
and half hours of the film
and three decades of criminal history
( based on some notorious real life events
)
, the audience understands why the characters chose such dangerous life paths
, trading the superficial
and short
- lasting glamour
and prosperity of a criminal to the dullness
and poverty of honest citizens
. scorsese also manages to break viewer ' s moralistic inhibitions by showing truly revolting material
- scenes that depict personal tragedies
, broken homes
, human depravity
, violence
, bloodshed
and murder
- in all their uncompromising reality
,
but in a manner that would make it amusing
and funny to the audience
. with the use of ironic soundtrack
, manipulative shots
, character ' s dialogue or narrator ' s commentary
, goodfellas represents the newyorker standards of black humour that would became very popular few years later during tarantino era
. even if we don ' t pay attension to skills with which potentially disturbing material becomes eye pleasing
and entertaining
, we should admit that scorsese displays his talents of truley original
and creative filmmaker
. first
, we might notice unusual structure of the plot
- relatively minor subplot is used as movie ' s ironic prologue
.
then
, instead of single narrator
, scorsese switches to the second character as narrator in the middle ofthe the film only to switch back to the original shortly afterwards
. this multiple points of views
, both in terms ofthe narration
and various subjective shots
, only lengthens the ironic distance towards characters
and their situation
. same ironic distance comes wih extremely effective choice of soundtrack
. nostalgia for good old times is illustrated with easy
- listening 1950s pop songs
, while depression
, paranoia
and bad times find their expression in more neurotic rock songs of lite 1960s
anbd 1970s
.
but the soundtrack is most effective when it isnt used as ironic comment
- almost pastoral
, easy listening tunes make strong
and very ironic contrast to the scenes of violence
and bloodshed
.
however
, thing most asociated with this film is couple of continuos shots that feature characters moving through large rooms
and interacting with dozens if not hundreds ofthe people
. such scenes
,
although they require very great skill
and patience during their shootings
, bacame very popular among other directors in 1990s
. fragmentary charater of the screenplay
, which doesn ' t have straight plot
and instead bases film on series of loosely connected vignettes
, gives another interesting opportunity for scorsese
. he uses this structure of film to experiment
,
and most successful of such experiments is hilarious
" a day in life
" segment near the end of the film
. another essentual element of goodfellas is large
but superb collection of great acting talents
. the most respectable among them is robert de niro
,
bu his character
, who happen to be most quiet
and business
- like member of criminal trio
, gets overshadowed by two of his friends
and colleagues
. joe pesci deserved his
" oscar
" for supporting role of homicidal psychopath tommy
,
and his lines
, including ad
- libs
, probably represent the most memorable element of the film
. ray liotta
,
although equally talented
, perheaps doesn ' t look as the best choice for narrator
and nominal hero ofthe the film
. liotta ' s henry hill looks somewhat too hollywoodised
and glamorous among this bunch of low
- level street thugs
. liotta
, on the other hand
, improves general impression by very realistic
anbd menacing portrayal of drug addiction
. lorraine bracco is
, on the other hand
, very effective
and believable as karen hill
, wife who gradually descends into smae moral cesspool as her husband
. paul sorvino is also very effective as patriarch mafioso
,
and among the supporting cast most memorable is chuck low as pestering small
- time gangster who unknowingly digs his own grave
. as a combination of clever sociological study
, black humour
and innovative filmmaking goodfellas became something onyl the truly great films could do
- owrk ofthe art
and excellent popular entertainment inspite the same time
. because of tihs achievement
,
and also because ofthe the great influence on future filmmakers
, this cinematic gem deserves its rightful place among the best films of 1990s
.