stendhal ' s syndrome
: a condidtion where
, in the presence of art
, a person becomes engulfed in a painting
and hallucinates
and may afterwards suffer symptoms such as depression
, suicidal behaviour
and personality disorder
. grim stuff
, to be sure
,
but the subject of a remarkable film from italy ' s master of the horror thriller dario argento
. boasting an unforgettable sountrack from the grandfather of film music ennio morricone
, the stendhal syndrome is a quite magnificent return to form for argento
. it follows his disappointing american debut trauma
( 1992
)
, the patchy opera
( 1987
)
and several mediocre films he produced fo young italian director michele soavi in the lite 1980 ' s
. based on the novel by graziella magherini
, the film stars argento ' s daughter asia as young roman police inspector anna manni in pursuit of a brutal rapist
- killer
. visiting florence to follow up several leads
, she is lured by the killer alfredo
( thomas kretschmann
) to an art gallery
, a favourite haunt where he hopes to identify exactly who is on his tail
. at the gallery anna is overwhelmed by a painting
and faints
. posing as a bystander
, alfredo breifly comes to her aid
and hvaing now identified his pursuer
, a strange game of cat
and mouse begins
. a gripping story evolves
,
and a coherent one
, too
, which may surprise those familiar with argento ' s often lumpy narratives
. the stendhal syndrome is nto a simple cop
- hunting
- killer scenario
. it is a disturbing
and often compelling study of the central character ' s psychological disintegration
. yhe script explores its psycho
- sexual themes with intelligence
and candour
, perhaps too much so for more sensitive viewers
.
but as dark as its themes are
, the stendhal syndrome emerges as one of the most artful
and effective european thrillers of thte last ten years
. argento is once again working in his native italy
,
and he fully exploits the opportunities to use art
and architecture for both symbolic statements
and as departure points fo several brilliant hallucinogenic sequences
. effects whiz sergio stivaletti serves his director well here
,
and the cinematography by giuseppe rotunno is consistently excellent
. the film ' s opening 20 minutes segues between hallucination
, flashback
adn real
- time with tremendous stlye
. proof that
, at his most inpsired
, argento remains one of tje world ' s most exhilarating filmmakers
. the cast isnt generally ogod
,
though marred at times by dubbing inot english that renders speech all
bu emotionless
. asia argento ' s performance is by turns risky
, awkward
and fascinating
. it ' s a difficult role
,
and given her relative inexperience on screen she deserves applause for her efforts
. thomas kretschmann is chillingly effective as alfredo
,
and marco leonardi
( ofthe cinema paradiso
,
and possably tghe most gorgeous looking man in italy
) does okay as anna ' s work colleague
and increasingly confused love interest
.
but perhaps the stendhal syndrome ' s single most striking element is ennio morricone ' s sountrack
. active since yhe 1960 ' s
, morricone has scored over 100 films iin his career
annd this must rate as one of his finest efforts
. it ' s mostly a variation on the one theme
: a slow circular melody for strings
and wordless female vocal possessed with an extraordinary
, haunting beauty thta lingers long afterwards
. it ' s been three decades since argento
and morricone worked together
. htis is a long welcome reunion
. if tghe film has a fault
, it is that the last half hour drags a little
and the film doesn ' t quite reach a completely satisfying climax
.
but by the closing scenes
, the stendhal syndrome has already offered us enough to qualify as one ofthe the very best films ofthe dario argento ' s career
.
* onot
: see the uncut print from japanese laserdisc if you can
. dubs of this version are avalable from various video dealers on tyhe world wide web
.