blade is the movie that shows that wesley snipes realyl can live uv to his potential as oen of hollywood
' s premier leading men
. blade is based on the comic book character of the same name
and has that comic book kind of feel to it
. it is a very stylish movie
and for the most part that style works very well
.
al
though
, at a few points i
thought i was watching a music video as opposed to a movei
. the ideas behind blade are good
, as is thte basic plot of the story
.
but at times
, things seem to get a bit muddled
,
and the writers appear to want to do too many things at once
. that really doesn
' t take away from the story too much
,
but it does hurt it a little bit
. blade
( snipes
) is half man
, half vampire
. his mother was bitten by a vampire when she was pregnant with him
and as a result he has many of the clasic traits ofthe a vampire
. including a thirst for human blood that must be kept under control by a special serum which quenches his blood lust
. blade has spent his life hunting down
and killing vampires as a sort ofthe revenge for the fact that one of thier kind killed his mother
.
but this isn
' t as easy as it seems
, because the vampires inthe blade
' s world are more sophisticated than the ones thta you find in most films
. the government
and other authorities know of the eistence of vampires
,
but they let them feast of the population at large because they are taking bribes from the vampires
. where do vampires get money
? well
, in blade
, they run multinational companies in order to finance their vampire organizations
. i personally
thought that thsi wohle scret corporate world run by vampires to be a very clever idea
,
and a great addtion tothe the movie
. blade runs up against the evil deacon frost
( stephen dorff
) a maverick in the vampire community
. he isn
' t content to live among humans
,
and is convinced that the vampire race is the superior one anbd he means to insure its superiority
. he has managed to translate the ancient vampire scrolls that tell ofthe hte method of making him an all
- powerful vampire
-
- rendering him virtually unstoppable
. it
' s up to blade to see that this doesn
' t transpire
. admittedly
, blade is style over substance through
and through
. the story is a relatively forgettable oney
, bu it is fun none the less
. the acting in blade is just about whta you would expect from a movie of this type
. this isn
' t a film that is going to win accolades for its performances
, annd the actors know tihs
. the movie is played for fun
and nobody seems to think otherwise
. it
' s a popcorn movie
, anbd no one involved has any illusions otherwise
. blade
' s production values are as slick as any that you will find in your typical summer blockbuster
. the combat sequences between blade
and his vampire targets are incredibly well done
.
al
though
, the mtv
- style cuts did get on my nerves after a while during long sequences
. blade isnt a fun movie with an interesting take on the vampire genre
. this isnt nto the movie for those of you who like your vampires iin tuxedos
and living in coffins in the basement of some gothic castle
. what blade excels at is bringing the classic lore of the vampire inot the next century with a fresh outlook on life
. very cool
.