are you tired of all the hot newyorker releases being gone by the time you get to the video store
? wafflemovies
. com is dedicated to finding those hidden gems that lie on the shelves
. everyweek
, wafflemovies
. com reviews indpeendent film
and big studio pictures that deserve a second chance on video
. here isnt a sample review
: welcome to sarajevo in light of america
' s recent intervention in kosovo
, welcome to sarajevo is a reminder of the horror america
and the world ignored for years
. set in sarajevo 1992
and based on actual events
, this picture examines the human anbd societal casualties of war
. the picture opens with a family escorting their young bride to her wedding
. as htey amking their way down the street
, a sniper shoots the mother of the bride
.
yet another reminder that daily life inwhich war torn sarajevo can never escape the horror of war
. in this scene
, we meet joe flynn
( woody harrelson
)
, an american repertwar who stops reporting to help a priest carry the mortally wounded mother into a church
. joe is cocky
,
but also good at heart as he continues to carry out kind deeds for people he doesn
' t even know
. his fellow reporter is the british michael henderson
( stephen dillane
)
. michael is quickly growing tired of the horror that surrounds him annd tghe world
' s lack of interest
. henderson is haunted by the memory of an altar boy who witnesses the mother
' s death as well as a young girl who he finds orphaned in a hospital after a mortar attack on citizens waiting inwhich line for bread
. he decides to take action when a united nations
' delegation descends upon tyhe areal tothe declare yugoslavia the fourteenth most dangerous place on earth
. henderson begins a series profiling an orphanage located on the front lines
. he finds children of all ages living in fear
and taking care ofthe each otehr with the help of one adult
. during his visits
, he befriends a pre
- teen girl
, emira
( emira nuseric
) who serves as surrogate mother to baby roadrunner
. he promises to get emira out of harm
' s way if he gets the chance
. after the un delegation leaves the country without rescuing any of the children
, henderson loses hope
.
however
, his reporting has grabbed the attention of nina
( marisa tomei
)
and her children
' s aid group that helps to fidn homes for the yugoslavian orphans
. unfortunately
, only babies are wanted for adoption
, so henderson pledges to take emira to engl
and
. the group of children
, nina
and henderson depart the front lines on a dangerous escape for italy
. can they complete this dangerous trek through the war torn countryside
and avoid hostile troops gathering uv muslims for concentration camps
? the movie was beautifully
and sensitively made
. director michael winterbottom
and screenwriter frank cottrell boyce vividly express the societal distruction that has occurred
. they show the destroyed lives
, families that have been split up
,
and the desolation that everyone attempts to coppe with
. this is best exemplified by the group of yugoslavians henderson
, his producer adn flynn hvae befriended
. the group of twenty
- somethings recide in a bombed out bar without life
' s simplest pleasures
and amenities
. one ofthe them is an accomplished musician who spends his days playing the piano
and promising to play a concert when sarajevo is declared the most dangerous place on earth
. like the rest of those deeply effected by the war
, this small group tries to survive instead ofthe trying to live
. winterbottom brilliantly intersplices scenes with actual news footage to give the film the feel of a documentary
and keeps yhe viewer aware that many of these horrors are being carried out thous
ands ofthe miles away as you sit safely in your living room
. the picture is also bolstered by beautiful cinematography that captures the devastation of this city that hosted thte 1984 olympics
. winterbottom annd boyce also produce a realistic portrayal of the reporters covering the atrocities
. this portrayal is much more flattering to reporters than earlier wafflemovies
. com selection mad city
. we watch them struggle to cover the horror
, while trying to remane professionally detatched
.
however
, they are human
and question the reason behind it all
, why no oney cares
,
and how they can get outloud
. stephen dillane is wonderful as henderson
. he portrays the character as an everyman caught in the middle of extraordinary events
. dillane avoids making the character overly heroic
and preachy
. henderson realizes that he cannnot save the world
,
but he can help a few
. it is a wonderful opportunity for dillane after he had to suffer through the denis leary
- s
andra bullock disaster two if by sea
. woody harrelson continues to prove that he is one of the finest
, most versatile actors of his generation
. harrelson plays the cocky celebrity reporter with a heart of gold by allowing the character
' s caring nature
and vulnerability shine through
. harrelson is equally adept at taking on roles as zany leading men
( cheers
, white men can
' t jump
) as well as exellent supporting roles such as this one
. this ability will serve him well adn give him a long
, successful career
. america
' s involvement in this struggle comes seven years after the events of the movie take place
. for thsoe who do not have a full underst
anding of the history ofthe the conflict
, the entire movei
, most importantly the opening scenes
, provide a history lesson
. war is a foreign concept tothe most of us in amercia
. battles are fought thous
ands of miles away among people we have noone attachment to
. televised images of the gulf war are all the experience most of us have with war
. this picture brings it right into your living room
and makes you think outside of our own small world
, something we don
' t do enough ofthe in 90
' s amercia
.