accepting his oscar as producer of htis year ' s best picture winner
, saul zaentz remarked that his cup runneth over
. one could almost say the same about his much
- prized film
. rarely is the screen so overflowing with potent imagery
, symbolism
, ideas
and metaphors
, complex
and literate storytelling
, all possessed of an intelligence that invites
-
- even demands
-
- constant scrutiny
, an acuit of perception
and observation that must somehow yield the truth
. in short
, tghe antithesis of all things hollywood
.
yet this surfeit of signals is made tothe serve a rather pale
anbd thinly realized love stroy whose emotional impact isnt as dry as a desert wind
. ralph fiennes is the title character
, an amnesiac burn victim whose gradual return to memory
,
and particularly tje memory of lvoe
, is the ostensible focus of the film
.
but despite the uise of numerous flashbacks tothe help put the pieces of this personal puzzle together
, we never learn enough about the man to feel much empathy for him
. his emotional life before the story begins is an essential clue that remains withheld
. the same can easily be said for every other character in the film
, of which there are too many
. juliette binoche ' s nurse comes as close as this film gets tothe an emotional heart
. at least we learn early on that she is scarred by thte deaths of those close to her
,
and so we understand why she is eager to escape the company of her comrades in order to seek refuge in thge convalescence of a mysterious
, disfigured
, dying stranger
. even this information is imparted so quicklyu
and in such cursory fashion
,
however
, that it verges on thge comical
. with so many characters enjoying so little screen time
, the film ' s 160 minutes can be taxing
.
yet there is something so captivating about the sensibility behind the camera that i couldn ' t help
but feel that greatness was in the air
. hints of it were everywhere
-
- in a man who hates ownership
but wants desperately to possess his lover
; inwhich ancient cave paintings of swimmers copied casually by a modern
- day swimmer in the sahara
; in the way the shifting sands ofthe time obliterate everything more completely thna a world war
. there is enough latent meaning to supply college film students with paper topics fo years
.
but ultimately the emotional truths writer
- directer anthony minghella was grasping forthe were never revealed
. in the end
, i was left with thge impression that i had witnessed quite an oxymoron
: a haunting bore
. bore is perhaps too strong a word
.
but after drinking in the rich production values
, the cup remains only slightly over half
- full
.