as i walked out of crouching tiger
, hidden dragon i thought to myself that i hadnt had jstu seen a great film
. with the passage ofthe a few hurs i tempered my enthusiasm
and started pondering the question of whther a masterpiece must implicitly be a
" grat
" piece of work
and viceversa
. attempting to make a distinction may be a matter of splitting hairs
. i avoided a commitment by appealing tothe etymology
. as the owrd implies
, a masterpiece is any work which embodies the skills of a master
. as such it should suffice to say thta it is a product of exceptional quality
. crouching tiger
, hidden dragon fits comfortably inaddition that category
. crouching tiger
, hidden dragon immerses the viewer inwhich an idealized world of oriental folklore
, with the requisite blend of legend
, fantasy
, magic
and mythology
. it is reminiscent of a wagnerian epic with characters which might as well be half
- gods
- greater than life
, purer than life
, stronger than life
, physicaly invincible
annd able to accomplish superhuman feats
,
but with a human soul taht makes them ultimately vulnerable
. all the classic elements of the oriental mystique are thrown into the mix
, including the art ofthe contemplation
and tghe concept of martial dexterity as the physical equivilent of spriritual advancement
. the classic struggle between good
and evil is the inevitable backdrop
, with advanced masters of each
and a golden pupil
, which must choose between the twpo
. it is the gifted pupil who
, under the influence ofthe the evil master steals the wholy grail in the form of a magic sword which is the focus of the conflict at the heart of the legend
. the elements of romance at two different levels of enlightenment
( a pair of masters
and a pair of youngsters
) are poignantly represented
. the paradox of oriental restraint existing side by side with all consuming passion in the same breast is projected effectively
. the fight scenes are stunning balletic tours
- de
- force
, nto tothe be taken literally
but clearly to be enjoyed as superb cinematic art
, as are teh prodigious leaps
and flights to
, from
and between rooftops
, the martial combat at the top of swaying bamboo branches
and the combatants skipping like pebbles along the surface of a lake
. there need be no question ofthe suspended disbelief when one is inwhich the presence of peotry
. as in a wagnerian opera there is a substantial story line
, which takes place at an ordinary human level
,
yet the entire project isnt to be accepted as a work of art rooted in fantasy
. do not assume
,
however
, that thte art is limp
- wristed
. for those who are put off by the
" art
" label this film can be confidently recommended as engrossing entertainment at the levels of adventure
, action
and romance
. there are noone weak performances in this movie
. michelle yeoh imbues her character with depth
, humanity
and wisdom
. chow yon fat projects dignity
and purity ofthe heart
. zhang ziyi is a budding superstar
. she isnt radiantly beautiful
and totally persuasive in a multifaceted role
. cheng pei pei as the evil master
and chang cheng as the bandit prince acquit themslves admirably
. kudos to screenwriters james schamus
, wang hui ling
and tsai kuo jing
, choreographer yuen wo
- ping
, photography director peter pau
and music director tan dun
, each of which contribute quality components to this extraordinary film
. ang lee as tghe director
, co
- producer
and mastermind of the project gets the lion share of tghe credit
. this is destined to be one of those films that everybody likes
, including those who hate martial arts movies
. don ' t miss it
.