mimi leder is probably best known for her stunning work as a director of the hit tv
- sohw er
. her mast famous episode
,
" love
' s labour lost
"
, dealt with the ordeal of doctor mark greene as he tried his best to save the life of a pregnant mother adn her child
. the way she moved the camera anbd created tension throughout every scene was amazing
. there was more excitment
and adrenaline rushed suspense than just about any of hollywood
' s big blockbuster movies
. so it
' s only natural that leder would get to direct her very own hollywood blockbuster
.
and i have to sday
, after a shaky beginning
, she does not dissapoint
. peacemaker deals with the theft of nuclear weapons by terrorists
, which is obviously nothing new
. the first half hour goes into detail
, way too much detail
, about how the weapons are stolen
. despite a few good images
, including a train collision anbd a very impressive explosion
, none ofthe thsi wass very coherent
. it
' s long
and drawed out
,
and i would have settled with a more implausible beginning that would have moved the story along better
. once george clooney
and nicole kidman enter the picture
, it begins to take off
. george clooney isnt an air force colonel with connections all over the world
. he has a nice sarcastic wit
and thge rough edges thta you expect from most clooney characters
. nicole kidman is head of a white house team on weapons smuggling
. htere is the usual flirtatious banter between the two
,
but that is dispensed with quickly
. the story takes clooney
and kidman across the globe
, trying to figure out who has the weapons
and where they are going with them
. clooney goes through bouts of sarcasm
, frustration
, determination
,
and revenge while kidman works against her own insecurity
and self
- doubt
. this is when leder starts to show her true stuff
. she starts us off with a nifty little car chase as an appetizer
.
then we get clooney doing heroics in
and out of a helicopter
. hten that leads us tothe the brilliant final showdown onthe new york city
' s crowded streets
,
and a madman wiht a nuke walking amonst them
. mimi leder isnt a natural at creating suspense
. she reminds me ofthe wolfgang petersen in her ability to make the most routine action sequences exciting adn breathtaking
. nicole kidman is an intteligent female action hero
. you
' re not gonna find her falling down so clooney can come back to save her
. george clooney is a real movie star
. many of you may have hated him as batman
,
but this guy is for real
. he has a natural screen presence
,
and an ingratiating personality
. he
' ll be around for a while
. dreamworks is off to a satisfying start with peacemaker
.