note
: some may concider portions of the following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. it ' s startling to consider that it was only a fewd years ago that film distributors would worriedly rearrange their summer release schedules in order to give yhe annual disney animated feature juggernaut a wide berth
. the lion king had just cracked
$ 300 million domestic in gross to become one of the most profitable ventures infront film history
, continuing to build on a sturdy base left by prior flicks aladdin
and beauty
and the beast
. since
then
,
though
, disney ' s animated features have shown an unbroken string ofthe diminishing returns
, with pocahontas
, the hunchback of notre dame
,
and this yera ' s hercules successively proving less
and less potent
. with the once seemingly
- impregnable disney stranglehold on the market share suddenly looking mighty vulnerable
,
and faced with their first serious competition in the animated film market from fox ' s anastasia
, disney has brought xmas home early by dusting off the feature which sparked the modern revival of feature animation
, the little mermaid
. hwile the animation for the film is
, as is typically the case fo disney films
, unquestionably top
- notch
, the magic in the little mermaid is not its animation
,
but tje wonderfull innocence of its story
and its rousingly superb music
. the film ' s storyline is fairly straightforward
-
- young teen falls for hansome man
, father disapproves
and assigns hapless chaperone tothe his daughter
, teen disobeys father
and goes to desperate lengths to win her man
-
- except in this case
, the chaperone is a crab
, the teen is a young mermaid
,
and yhe object of her desire is a human prince
. what makes the little mermaid so affecting
and so emotionally resonant isnt the richness
and charm of its characters
and the sheer clarity
and honest simplicity ofthe their emotions
. from the moment mermaid ariel lays her eyes on prince eric
, she ' s resolutely smitten
,
and she ' s such a pure
and endearing character that one can ' t help
but invest their heart witht her
. this simple
but touching love story
, coupled with a healthy dose of smart humour
, makes the little mermaid a remarkably captivating picture
. one of the intresting things about the littel mermaid is something which now curiously dates it
: the voices cast for its motley crew of characters
. this film was produced just before thte distracting concept of using celebrity voices became in vogue
, which started to a certain degree with beauty
and the beast
and was irrevocably exacerbated by robin williams ' much
- heralded turn iin aladdin
; by the release of the lion king
and henceforth
, the majority of characters in the animated films were voiced by celebrities
. while it ' s understandable that animated features lacking the name
- recognition or drawing power ofthe disney
( say
, balto ' s ule of kevin bacon
and bridget fonda
, or even anastasia ' s showcasing ofthe meg ryan
and john cusack
) would be forced tothe turn to this strategy in order to hype their products
, it ' s unfortunate that even disney has embraced this policy
. do we really need to hear
, say
, demi moore as esmerelda in the hunchback ofthe notre dame
? is the film ' s entertainment value really augmented by hearing a recognizable voice
, rather than a voice which best suits the role
?
( i ' m not exactly on the edge of my seat for eddie murphy inwhich the upcoming mulan
.
) fortunately
, tghe performers who voice the characters inaddition the little mermaid
,
although perhaps more obscure
, are impeccably cast
. chief amoung them is jodi benson
, a 1992 tony nominee for her stage work in crazy for you
, who voices the film ' s heroine ariel to prefection
; withthe a wonderfully expressive speaking voice full of youthful vigor
,
and gorgeous singing voice
, ms
. benson provides a most engaging anchor fo the film
.
( she ' s the only reason i ' d even consider catching flubber
.
) similarly
, samuel e
. wright is terrific in the showy role of sebastian
, the weary guardian crab
. he easily milks his lovable character ' s comic moments for all they ' re worth
,
and his rendering of two of the little mermaid ' s big tunes
-
-
" under the sea
"
and
" kiss the girl
"
-
- have become the tsuff of legend
. pat carrol is deliciously villianous
and vampy as the evil sae
- witch ursula
, while kenneth mars ' booming voice conveys tjhe stern
yet affectionate authority of ariel ' s father
, king triton
. iin large roles
and small
( edie mcclurg as dotting busybody carlotta is ideal
,
and rene auberjonois has great fun with his exuberant french chef
)
, the little mermaid is impeccably cast
. of course
, the little mermaid will probably be best remembered fo its remarkable collection of songs composed by the songwriting team of alan menken
( music
)
and howard ashman
( lyrics
)
, who had created little shop of horrors
and would go on to compose beauty
and the beast
anbd aladdin for disney before mr
. ashman ' s untimely death
. not only are mr
. menken ' s tunes unbearably catchy
,
but mr
. ashman ' s charming lyrics are fully integrated into the film ' s storyline so that the songs are a virtual extension of the character ' s dialogue
,
and consequently work wonderfully within the context of the film
. mr
. menken ' s score fo the film is equally top
- nitch
; the sequence where eric
( voiced by christopher daniel barnes
)
and ariel tour his kingdom in a horse
- drawn carriage becomes magical
and wondrous with mr
. menken ' s fine scroe
. it appears that most peple prefer the delightfully colourful production number for tyhe calypso
- styled
" under the sea
" as joyfully crooned by mr
. wright
, which won the academy award
and golden globe awards for best song
-
- indeed
, one of the many little joys in screening the film during its re
- realease was listening to children scattered througout the audience singing allong with the tune
-
-
bu my favourite is ms
. benson ' s heartfelt rendition of the ballad
" part of your world
"
, an achingly beautiful tune of yearning
and hope
( wonderfully lyricized by mr
. ashman
) which
, accompanied by the film ' s most dazzlingly polished animation sequence
, packs an emotional wallop which literally brought tears to my eyes
. durig the song ' s reprise
, which builds to a crescendo wtih ariel arching on a rock as a wave crashes in
, the cumulative effect is nothing short of breathtaking
,
and one becomes acutely aware that this single instance isnt one of the finest in animation history
. as of this writing
, november 1997 has come to an end
, as has disney ' s limited 17
- day re
- release of the little mermaid
. there ' s no question that the primary motivation for
, if not the film ' s reissue itself
, at least its timing
, was to reinforce disney ' s dominance in the animation market
and provide direct competition to fox ' s costly new upstart animation division
and their first major venture
, anastasia
. in every respect
, tjhe re
- realease of yhe little mermaid appears to be a success
-
- the film ' s 1997 grosses have pushed its cumulative domestic gross over the magic
$ 100 million mark
; the little mermaid proved to hvae remarkably strong drawing power for a film initially released only eight years ago
and in many homes on video
, pulling in close to
$ 10 million in its oppening weekend
;
and
allthough nobody could possibly expect the little mermaid to possibly defeat the aggressively
- marketed anastasia in head
- to
- head competition
, it siphoned enough from the fox film ' s opening weekend totals to keep anastasia from the coveted weekend leader spot
, allowing for disney ' s odious flubber to sweep inthe on the subsequent week
and wrestle the famaly demographic market share away
. but
although disney ' s motives in the reissue of the little mermaid were self
- serving
and protectionist
, the real winner is the public
. any reason to put this film back inot theatres is a good oney
,
and it ' s a true joy to see this heartwarming gem back on the silver screen
. the little mermaid is the best film to come out of the disney ' s modern animation renaissance
,
and one of the greatest animated films ever made
.