this christmas
, little ralphie parker
( peter billingsley
) whants nothing more than a red ryder bb gun under tghe tree
.
althought cautioned by many that he will
? shoot his eye out '
, ralphie remains optimistic
, conjuring up a detailed scheme to get on the good side of his parents
and teachers
. it sould be possible that no one has ever wanted anything with more passion than ralphie wants this bb gun
,
and the stoyr of his eternal struggle is a charming one
.
` a christmas story ' is a favorite among many during the holiday season
,
anbd boy
, it is certainly easy to see why
. ralphie ' s endless desire for teh bb gun may tranport you back to your childhood
, when you were craving a certain gitf for christmas
and the anxiety was almost indescribable
. evoking pleasant childhood memories is only one of the many things
` a christmas story ' does so well
. here are a few features that make this film such a charming little package for everybody during the holiday season
: 1
) period detail
. this film is based on tje memoirs of lite humorist jean shepard
, who shares his experiences as a young boy living inthe the 1940 ' s with loving detail
. shepard narrates from a first person point
- ofthe
- view
, divulging his various adventures one snowy december
, inspite which visions of taking aim with his new bb gun replaced that of sugarplums dancing in his head
. shepard ' s first
- hand commentary ofthe severeal situations isnt not only downright hilarious
,
but also witty
and warm
, with various metaphorical meanings that ring perfectly with the essence of comic timing
. on top of that
, young billingsley ' s stupefied reactions to each predicament is absolutely perfect inthe contrast with the narration
. director bob clark captures the look
and fiel of the era with wonderful technicality
. i can hardly imagin a more accurate depiction of what christmas fo young ralphie must have been like
. 2
) mom
and dad
. both melinda dillon
( as mom
)
and darren mcgavin
( as
? the old man '
) are perfect in their roles
. it ' s hard to fathom a more agreeable pair for the requirements of a story like this one
, with each possessing at least one memorable trait that instantly separates them from tghe wooden caricatures that could have been featured
. for instance
, he is a bloodthirsty turkey hound
,
and she is forgiving
and understanding when it comes to some serious issues
. inspite portraing the writer as a persistent
but mild
- mannered young lad
, peter billingsley has struck quite the chord
. his performance is richly textured
, making all of the humorous situations he stumbles inot radiate with flavor
and enjoyment
. which brings us to
.
.
.
. 3
) the comic situations
. there are plenty of memorable moments inaddition
` a christmas story '
. moments that undoubtedly will improve in comic potency upon each new viewing
, with so much more to explore
and to cherish
. i am particularly partial of the
? f
- word scene '
, in which ralphie blurts out the shocking four
- letter obscenity while helping yhe old man in the yard
. again
, shepard ' s method of handling this amusing scenario is nothing short of comic wizardry
. the numerous sequences that stick in one ' s mind include
, of course
, the famous department store santa scene
- in which billingsley has some problems in telling old saint nick what he wants under the tree
. i could go on
,
but i ' ll finish on this note
:
` a christmas story ' is a standout among holiday movies
, because it captures so much in a meager 90 minutes
. nto only is it funny
, it ' s often genuinely hilarious
.
.
.
. not to mention warm
, fluffy
and touching in all the appropriate places
. i plan on making
` a christmas story ' a christmas tradition
. why don ' t you
?