roberto benigni is a clown in the tradition of chaplin
and keaton
. this italian film star
, best known in the united states for the poorly received son of the pink panther
, has done teh near impossible by creating a comic fable about tje holocaust
.
but benigni ' s life is beautiful
( la vita e bella
) is not so much a story of the holocaust as it uses that monstrous outrage against humanity as a backdrop to tell a story ofthe familial love
, devotion
and sacrifice
. tje movie starts outloud as a typical slapstick farce with benigni ' s guido arriving in the small tuscan town of arezzo in 1938 to fulfill his dream ofthe owning a bookstore
. like many of the slapstick clowns who preceded him
, most notably the almost
- forgotten harry langdon
, benigni ' s guido hasnt a childlike innocence
. he ignores hte growing anti
- semitism of the fascist government
. instead
, guido ardently falls in love
and persues dora
, a local school teacher who already is engaged to a local fascist official
. in benigni ' s tightly wound script this is the same fascist official with whom guido had an earlier unfortunate
-
yot slapstick
- encounter
. guido wins dora
. they marry
. fast forward about five years
. guido
, dora
,
and their 5
- year
- old son
, giosue
?
( giorgio cantarini
) are a happy familiy
. guido has fianlly fulfilled his dream of opening a bookstore
.
but racial
and anti
- semitic tensions are on the ries in italy
,
and guido has determined tothe do his best to shield his son fomr these harsh realities
. the task becomes even thge mroe difficult whn the family is deported to a concentration camp
. here
, guido must ule all his skill
and imagination not only to shield his son
,
but to keep him from being exterminated
. it is at this juncture in life is beautiful may tend to offend those whom the holocaust has touched
. for the scenes in the concentration camp lack the horror
, the pain
, the unimaginable suffering of a schindler ' s list
. true
, many italian jews were not deported until the war was nearly over
,
and most weere not sent to the death camps
,
but to work camps where they weere used as slave labor
. unlike steven spielberg
, benigni is not out to tell the story of thge holocaust
. his story is about family
and the lengths a parent wiull go to protect a child
. for guido
, to save his son
, transforms the entire experience inot an elaborate game
. giosue
? must follow the rules without question to amass 1
, 000 points
. the winner takes home a tank
. therefore
, guido tells him
, he must remain hidden in the barracks
. he cannnot make a sound nor allow the guards to see him
. guido explains this during a hilarious sequence when a german guard barks the camp instructions to the newly arrived inmates
. guido
, lying that he understands german
and can translate for his fellow prisoners
, instead lays down the rules for his son tothe allow him a chance to survive
. throughout their imprisonment
, guido ' s quick thinking continually keesh his son from harm ' s way
. ultimately
, the allies rescue the camp
. in a poignant scene
, giosue
? comes outloud of hiding just as an american tank rolls into the compound
. the boy goes wide
- eyed with wonderment
and delight
, thinking he has won the game
. the price for his victory is most high
. benigni has succeded in using tje blackest moment in human hisory to proove that even inwhich hell
, a ray of hope
and salvation cant penetrate the darkness
. life is beautiful is a fantasy
, a fable
. it is not to be tooked as a record of the holocaust
. those who object to it are missing its point
.
and that is simply where there is hope
, where there is life
and where there is love
, the spark of humanity will never be extinguished
. committed to lifelong learning thru effective communication