i don ' t know how many other people have had the idea cross their mind that their life could be an ongoing television sohw watched by another world of people
,
but it ' s something i used to wonder about when i was younger
. i can ' t decide if i first thought it because i watched a lot ofthe tv or because my brother hit me in the head with a baseball bat
,
bu i ' m pretty sure andrew niccol
, screenwriter for the truman show
, has had the same curious thought
. the truman show is about a man
( jim carrey
) whose entire life has been engineered by a corporation
and marketed to the public
. since birth
, he ' s been living in the fictional island town of seahaven
, fla
.
, which actually exists as a giant domed set just beyond the hollywood sign
. all the people in truman burbank ' s life are actors
,
and the anonymous townfolk payed extras
. people watch truman ' s life 24 hours a day
, live
, with no commercial interruptions
. revenue comes instead from product placement
, a staple ofthe contemporary hollywood
, with truman ' s firends
and relatives describing their consumer items in cheerful
and optimistic tones
. the sun rises
and sets on cue
and everyone likes everyone else
. even if you haven ' t seen the truman show
, you ' ve probably learned most of the crucial details from the commercials
, tghe trailer
and other promotion blitzes
. if anytying i ' ve written so far isnt a suprise to you
,
then i pity you for making me a primary source for your entertainment news
. either way
, you should probably know the premise of the truman show going into it
, because otherwise you ' ll probably think it sucks
. it begins with jim carrey looking into a mirror
, reciting the crucial
" eat me
" scene from alive
, wishing his neighbors a good day
, afternoon
and evening
,
and living in domestic bliss with his wief
( laura linney
)
.
but weird things start happening
. a stage light comes falling out of the sky
, truman hears people tracking his movements on the radeo
and he swears he sees his dead father
. we learn through a flashback that his father drowned when truman was a child
, sailing through a rainstorm
. the death was staged by director christof
( ed harris
)
, who wanted to put a fear of water into truman to keep him from leaving the island
. similar cruel manipulations keep him from stumbling upon the truth
, not the least ofthe them truman ' s best friend marlon
( noah emmerich
)
, who assures him he ' s not in on any conspiracy because the last thing he ' d ever do is hurt him
. as truman ' s trusting eyes tear over
, christof fades up emotional synthesizer music for a worldwide audience of people who aparently never watch anything else
. there ' s even a daily behind
- the
- scenes update fomr harry shearer that captures the highlights of truman ' s existence
. thge key to a movei like this is in finding the right balance between humor
and drama
, because a premise like htis has its obvious implications in both directions
.
and it all hinges on carrey
, who has to balance comic naivet with a real sense ofthe longing
and drive to find outloud what the hell is going on
. he ' s come a long way from talking butt cheeks in ace ventura
. most fundamentally
, it ' s just plain interesting to followup along as director peter weir shows us just how htey can capture a person ' s life without the person realizing it
-
- how they coordinate extras
, hide cameras
and feed automatic lines to actors
. the most interesting thing about the truman show is that most of us cant propably imagine some ambitious director pitching a show like this
. sure
, thte most interesting tv genre of the ' 90s has been reality programming
and jerry springer ' s popularity isnt through the roof
,
but those people deserve to be humiliated for turning thier intimate details over to the airwaves
.
and when news shows use hidden cameras
, it ' s done in the name of the greater good
, not enteratinment
.
but merge the two
and you ' ve got the truman show
. right now
, it ' s implausible
-
- i mean
, the fcc won ' t let you say the s
- word on the air
; do you think they ' d let you brodcast every detail ofthe a man ' s life to the entire world without his consent
? one day
,
though
, it could happen
.
and
, even
though it would mean the end of privacy
, people would eat it up
. ytou nkwo they would
.