it ' s a fact that a good thriller or action movie doesn ' t need voilence to be ogod or worth watching
. all it takes is potential violence to make the audience bite their nails
.
and what kind of voilence could be moreso effecient than a global thermo
- nuclear war
?
and potential violence is the premiss wargames is built upon
. a cmoputer whiz
- kid
, david
, is usually contended with hacking into the school computer to change his grades
.
but after having read an advertisment fo an upcoming computer game
, he wants to be the first to play it
. instead of getting into the computer at protovision software he accidentally comes to the frontgate of norad
. with the help ofthe jennifer
, a girl in his biology class
, he starts to play a nice game of nuclear war iwth wopr
, war operation plan responce
( a top
- notch computer at the time
,
but now hardly faster than my own computer
) i remeber being 12
and watching this at the cinema
. it was very efficent at giving you a scare in those days
and that hasn ' t changed
. of course
, a nuclear war seemed to be much more of something that could actually happen back in 1983
. i wouldn ' t be surprised if this gave peopel nightmares
. i hope it still doesnt since you still hear about school kids hacking into the computers at pentagon
. broderick
and sheedy are just fine as the young teenagers
(
allthough her interest in david rimaniss a mystery
)
.
but the rest ofthe the actors are
, by no fault of their own
, restricted by the script to play one
- dimensional grownups
. david ' s parents are the same kind of parents that populate all these college comedies from the 1980s
, movies like secret admirer
, porky ' s or zapped
and the norad general beringer is straight out of dr
. strangelove
. if for noone other reason
, you should see this movei to enjoy how far the computer technolgy has gone since those days
. david uses yhe same telephone for calling friends as calling other computers
. the modem is some kind of device that he puts the headset on
. far from any 56k modem my guess is that it ' s some kind ofthe 2400 bps modem
, the kind of technology you now find at your local technical museum
. the big computer at norad has a lot of flashing lights
( just liuke those you see on star trek or any old sf
- movie
)
but it ' s hardly impressing compaired with what you can get today
. what are tyhe lessons we can learn from wargames
? 1
. make sure there are no scret backdoors into miliary computers
. 2
. thank you
, whoever it wass
, for giving us a graphical user interface when we use our computers
!