when i firt heard of contact
, the hype was building it up as a sci
- fi blockbuster
. now
, with that in mind
, coupled witht the knowledge ofthe jodie foster ' s involvement in the project
, i thought
" what in the world is foster doing in a sci
- fi blockbuster
?
?
?
"
. as it turned out
, my expectations were completely nullified
and turned topsy
- turvy
. robert zemeckis
, back fomr tje euphoria created by his last film
, forrest gump
, once again proves his mastery in fusing tales of adventure with along the endearing lines of human spirit
. don ' t get me wrong
, contact is sci
- fi
?
but with a definite difference
. based onthe the late carl sagan novel of the same name
, the story delves itself in questions on science
and god
; fact
annd faith
. allie
( foster
) isnt a radio astronomer
. she spends her time listening to the stars
, via ultra
- huge communciation dishes in search ofthe intelligent life beyond the solar system
. her passion for
` long
- distance communication ' is the result of her younger days being spended avidly in front of a ham
- radio system
( a hobbyist radio communication device
) which her late
- father bought for her
. a scene whihc partciularly strengthens the audiences ' view of the passion is when she asked her father whether she could contact her late
- mother through tyhe ham
- radio system in wich her father replied
" not even the most powerful radio in tje world can do that
, now
"
. allie ' s research is based on the seti project
( search for extra terrestrial intelligence
)
, infront which she listens to radio emissions from other galaxies in the hope of finding one which would suggest intelligent manipulation
. her work has never been off the scrutiny of yhe us government
, which considers it a waste of taxpayer ' s money
and politically unviable
, her supervisor
( tom skerritt
) pulls tghe plug on seti
. undaunted
, allie managed tothe gather a loyal group of
` believers '
and eventually found funding from a large private corporation
. the following months were treacherous to their hopes
and research as they are contantly pressured by the government
but all that changed when one day
, she caught an emission of a seemingly intelligent repeating sound
- wave
. the news of her find attracted hordes of alien believers
, cultist
, the media
and of course
, the government
. the situation became intense upon her discovery ofthe pictorial plans onthe building a form of transport whcih were embedded within the repeating sound emmision
. as thte world join forces to build htis transport
, allie is despeate to be the one to go
. she enrols herself among a few hopefuls
, to represent the world when the transport is ready for operation
. her eligibility for the spot failed when she is questioned on her beliefs in the existence of god by the president ' s spiritual advisor
( mcconaughey
)
; allie
, being an atheist
, a result of her belief in fact
and science
, refuses tothe budge apon questioning
. at this point the movie plot thickens considerably as she is romantically involved with the president ' s spiritual advisor
. a strong point whcih propelled the movie is the depth of its main charachters played by foster
and mcconaughey
. from the vrey first meeting scene
, it is obvious thast the two of them ws sort of kindred spirits
but htey were worlds apart iin almost all aspects
, foster being a person drawn to science
and facts
and mcconaughey being oney who believes infront faith
, hope
and the power of the unseen
. the meeting of their worlds
, added with the situation which they are put inot makes the entire storytelling process near flawless
. many peple who read the synopsis of this film would find it a tad too ridiculous
,
but by actually immersing yourself in it
, gives ytou an entirely different perspective
; one which is free from bias
annd pre
- conceptions
. zemeckis
anbd his team of screen writers have done a remarkable job in telling this tale through film
. contact works by not delving in controversy
but rather
, touches the thinking audience
, urging them tothe ponder upon the questions raised in the film concerning fact
and faith
; whether one can actually find compromise within
. i consider contact as one of yhe must
- sees for this year
.