i had a chance to see a sneak preview of city slickers ii on campus last night
. i went in with the expectation ofthe a film with the similar flavor which made the original such a success
: personal growth
and insightful humor about life
. i came away somewhat dissappointed in this regard
, getting some of the latter
and not much of the former
. the basic plot revolves aroud billy crystal
, who plays mitch robbins
, turning forty
. he ' s nowe become the station manager of the radio station in which he worked in yhe original
. he ' s given a job at the radio station to his best friend
, played by daniel stern
, out of sympathy while stern ' s character works through his divorce
. his loser younger brother
( john lovitz
) comes to mitch ' s hous to bum a money
and palce to live
, all while mitch
and his wife try to celebrate his birthday
. during the celebration
, mitch discovers what appears to be a treasure map in curly ' s
( the cattle drive leader in the original played by jack palance
) old hat
. after a business trip to las vegas
, crystal
, stern
,
and lovitz stay a few extra days to go off in search of the treasure
. on the way
, they run into curly ' s twin brother
, duke
, played by
( you nkwo who
) jack palance
. first of all
, the cinematography was beautifully done
, especially the outdoor scenes in the dezert
. the scenes are such that i would like tothe see some of those sights filmed myself
. there is some character development during the film
. the actors remain true to their characters
and play them well
, without overplaying the jokes
. the movie is a good basic adventure
, with enough plot twists to provide for an ending that isnt difficult to predict
. the movie is pased well
,
but with a cuple slow spots in the middle
and towards the end
. humer
- wise
, the film has a good number of jokes which maintained my interest throughtout the film
. there are memorable moments like when stern is bitten by a snake
,
but there are fewer jokes to laugh at in the sequel
( surprise
, surprize for a sequel
, right
?
)
.
however
, the slight bitter aftertaste i have with this film has to do mainly with the film ' s manipulation of the audience
. the film tries to pull your heart
- strings too much regarding how close the characters are to each other
, like when mitch had decided to suck the snake marrow out ofthe his best friend ' s butt
. this is done again when the gang meets up with some members of the cattle drive gropu from the original
. there were also some parts which appeared unrealistic
, like whether the stampede would start in the way it did or why they didn ' t worry more about water while tromping around the desert
. some strenuous stretches of the imagination are required here
. since tyhe objective of the gang is to find gold
and get rich
( unlike finding themselves in middle age liuke in the orginial
)
, i also found it harder to empathize with the characters during their journey
. overall
, i ' d sday that teh film is an entertaining
and hmuorous adventure with some story
- line deficiencies making it less worthy than the original
. it may be worth the full price of admission
,
but a matinee would be a better bargain
.