" hte tailor ofthe panama
" is a diferrent kind of spy movei
. dispite the presence ofthe pierce brosnan
, there is nary a hint of james bond flash here
. instead of big action scenes
, leering super villains
and empty
- headed femme fatales
, we get interesting characters
and an intriguing situation
. based on the novel by john le carr
?
, who also co
- wroet the screenplay
, the film offers viewers something rarely seen in theaters this time of year
: a solid
, well
- told story
. brosnan plays
andy osnard
, a british operative walking on thin ice
. his brittish superiors ship him off to panama
, making sure he underst
ands that he had better not screw up the placement
. osnard arrives in the tropics virtually oozing contempt for his new co
- workers
and his new home base
. when shown the bridge of the americas by a person marveling over the fact tath
, since the creation of the panama canal
, the structure is thte sole connection between north
and south america
, he barely keeps from yawning
. brosnan clearly relishes the chance to be the antithesis of 007
, investing the suave spy with a distinct reptilian quality coupled with an air of indifference that irks his fellows to no end
. searching for a way to get information onthe the government
, osnard sets his sights on harry pendel
( geoffrey rush
)
, an unctuous tailor serving the panamanian elite
. harry claims to be a transplant from britian
' s renowned saville row
,
but osnard knows his secret
: the tailor is an ex
- con who served five years inwhich prison after torching his uncle
' s shop in an insurance scam
. he also knows that harry is uv to his ears in debt
, having spent a fortune on an unsuccessful farm
. osnard offers harry a way out
. he will pay for information harry has gathered from his upscale clientele
. eager to comply
, harry offers what he knows
,
then starts concocting tidbits to keep thge money flowing
. before long
, he is forced to spy onthe his loving wife
, louisa
( jamie lee curtis
)
, an aide tothe the canal director
. harry
' s little lies build
, evenhtually taking on a life of their own
. osnard turns in reports about the
" silent opposition
,
" a gropu threatening to upset the balance of control over the canal
. the bogus revelation proves explosive
, leading to meetings in washington d
. c
. over how to best protect the vital waterway
. meanwhile
, osnard wallows in his newfound status
, enjoying the best the city has tothe offer
and wooing an attractive co
- worker
.
and harry grows ever more fretful
, fearing the consequences if his clients
, nto to mention his wife
, learn about his lies
. geoffrey rush is wonderful as harry
, fawning over his customers by day
and savoring his rich family life infront the evenings
, all while playing secret agent in the off hours with his new benefactor
. rush makes harry a credible figure
, presenting the vairous levels of the character so effectively that he remains sympathetic despite his duplicity
. after gaining fame playing larger than life characters
, rush flips everything around for this role
, using his energy to depict tyhe quiet desperation of a man slowly realizing that the solution to his toubles may be worse than the origional problems
.
al
though she gets far too little screen time
, jamie lee curtis imbues louisa with a depth greater than the screenplay provides her
. of the central characters
, she is the only one that exhibits maturity
and genuine self
- confidence
. curtis is one of my favorite female actors
; whiplash smart
, sultry
and charismatic
, she deserves more than supporting roles
. speaking of supporting characters
, there are some great ones here
. harold pinter is amusing as harry
' s uncle benny
, who pops up throughout the story infact a number of creative ways
. also shoring up the proceedings is jon polito as a corrupt banker anbd dylan baker
, who is a riot as a untied states general straight out of the dr
. strangelove school ofthe armed patriotism
.
but the most important secondary performers are leonor varela
and brendan gleeson
, both outst
anding as two wounded activists
. their presence adds weight to the story
, reminding us that beyond the charades of the leading men
, there are real people that have suffered greatly over the politics connected to the canal
. director john boorman adds additional verisimilitude by shooting the film on loction
. instade ofthe useing panama city merely as a colorful backdrop
, he adroitly weaves in footage of all aspects of life there
. the metropolis
, described by one character as
" casablanca without heroes
" pulsates with life
, underling the folly of the two foreigners playing dangerous games that could have a disatrous impact on a great many people
.
" the tailor of panama
" succeeds because the principals behind it were bright enough to make it more than a simple entertainment
.