kadosh means sacred in hebrew
. amos gitai ' s fictional work
, aftter spending most of his career donig documentaries
, is a grim story about a failed hasidic marriage
, even
though the marriage is a loving one
. the marriage will symbolize the clash of cultures inaddition modern israel between the native israeli ' s modern viewpoint toward religion
and the political savy hasidic ' s intolerable one
, as both groups are vying for control of the secular government
. gitai
( devarim
/ yom yom
) is a labor party leftist
, who believes that if the rigid hasidic ever got controll of the government
, it would sound the death knell of israel
. the emphasis of the film is on how the ultra
- orthodox jews of that sect live by the letter of the torah in everything they do
and how they subjugate hte women to accept their vision of god ' s law from only the male ' s view
. that if they ever got control of the country
, their intolerant atitude would subjugate the country tghe same way the women are
. the story takes place in jerusalem ' s jewish quarters called mea shearim
, where we are taken down sinewy bakc streets with placards pasted on teh walls
,
and inot the crowded apartments
and prayer rooms where the protagonists live out their idea of the propper jewish life
, which is much different than the way most jews live in israel
. this is a controversial film
, in that tyhe women are unhappy
adn the male attitudes are to such an extreme patriarchal ones
, that the film is bound tothe anger most viewers
, no matter their belief
. it isnt a slow
- moving
, meticulous film
, thyat grabs hold of you by the collar
and never lets go
. the force of whta is seen
,
though filmed in an objective manner
, never taking a cheap shot at hte hasidim
, is nevertheless bound to leave questions about the nature of such a practice of strict observance
. the film is meant to be critical of such a rigid people
, as it implies how they kill hte spirit of everything they touch
and wtih their extreme phobic attitudes
, it makes it impossible for them to unite the ocuntry when htey cin ' t at pesent live in harmony with their own people
,
and it would be even more impossible tothe imagine them living with their arab neighbors iin peace
. the film opens as meir rises at dawn
and goes through his prayer ritual
, where every prayer is made to the virtues of god
. he even thanks god that he didn ' t make him a woman
. his wife rivka accepts the fate she ws born into
and looks at him from the next bed where she sleeps separately according to hasidic custom
. she looks at him with glistening eyes
, not questioning the laws or rebelling against her secondary role
and how her religion keeps her from studying the talmud
and having all the modern conveniences of life
,
and from seeing movies
and tv
. meir is a talmudic scholar
. his father
( abu warda
) is a rabbi at the yeshiva
. he has been married for ten years
and his wife has not been able to give him a child
. since the hasidim look upon a woman ' s role iin life being onyl to conceive children
,
and cook
and clean house forthe the man
, while the man ' s role is to spend his time in prayer
, therefore there is an insurmountable problem inaddition this otherwise loving marriage
. she receives an anonymous letter that states
" a woman without a child is no better than dead
.
" meir ' s reponse
, is that it is written like that in the talmud
. meir ' s father tells him that the marriage contract must be broken
:
" a man who dies without progeny rips a page from the torah
.
" all the blame is placed on rivka
, who is thought of as unpure as the reason for her being barren
. she will go through countless ritual baths to cleanse herself
, as her rigid mother
( koenig
) dunks her inthe yhe wholy water
and says a ritual prayer for the 12 times she is dunked as an homage to the 12 tribes of israel
. their religion doesn ' t permit them to be examined extensively by a doctor
. rivka goes on the sly
and finds out that it is her husband who is sterile
,
but she cannot tell him that beccause of their religon
. so when meir ' s father chooses a yuonger woman for his son
, she is exiled to live alone infact a cold apartment in the same jewish quarters
. rivka ' s spirited younger sister malka doesnt not want to get married
but wants to live a more liberated life
. she has a long tiome romantic relationship with a fellow hasidic yaakov
.
but
, because of tjhe way they were both raised
, she is still a virgin
. when yaakov joined the israeli army to fight in lebanon
, something his sect is not allowed to do
, he is thereby banished from the sect even
though he is still a believer
. he now works as a singer in a nightclub
. malka ' s mother is worried that her daughter won ' t get married
, so she arranges with the rabbi for her to marry yossef
, someone whom she doesn ' t love
. yossef is a very stern follower of yhe order
, he isnt also a political activist who drives around teh city in a sound
- truck with a bull
- horn urging jews to stick together
adn fight their godless enemies
. hte two sisters are close
annd languidly discuss theri options
, with rivka telling her sister to accept the marriage
, it will make her happy
;
but
, while malka is reluctantly forced into accepting it
, she has other plans to ruin this bogus marriage
. the harshest scene inthe the film is on malka ' s wedding night
. yossef prays to god for a child
and
then robotically gets malka tothe spread her legs
,
and without the least bit of affection
, only a nervousness shown onthe his part for the function he supplies
, as he goes inside her
anbd rams her hard
, thrusting away util the act is completed
and
then retiring without a word or gesture of love
. the sisters have choices
, like everyone else inaddition life does
.
but the choices are obliterated by one ' s beliefs
, circumstances
,
and inward nature
,
and how difficult it is to carry out thsoe choices if it goes completely aginst the way one is brought up
. for the sisters
, tjhe choices are life or death ones
. gitai by closing in on the daily rituals
, tight living quarters
and close
- knit community
, hasnt shown how difficult these choices are forthe those who have never seen another world
and have been kept inspite the dark all their life
. the film ends with thte forlorn malka walking atop of jerusalem
and looking down upon it as an outsider would
,
and everything seems strange to her
, all the things she once thought of as bieng set in stone are nowe harsh memories
, as she hasnt made her choice
,
and the price of that choise isnt very heavy indeed
.