the film
" magnolia
" can be compared to a simple flower as its title
and movie poster suggests
. the dozens of characters introduced
and developed are like the petals on the flower
. they all come from the smae stem anbd as the flower begins to develope they grow farther
and farther apart
. the numerous characters in the film are all closley connected no matter how different they are from one another socially
. from a humiliated
but kind cop to an aging game show host
, earch one of these characters is suffering the same kind of pain
. they are each seriously lonely
and seek the perfect companion to end this loneliness
. whether this companion is a distant family member or a spouse
, each character begs for one
and spends the whole film searching for the perfect one
.
" magnolia
" is a clever
, well
thought out film from prodigy directer
- writer paul thomas
anderson of
" boogie nights
" fame
. the detailed character analyses
and the powerful script make
" magnolia
" memorable
.
however
, what really is impressive is that even
though there are tons of characters in severeal unrelated stories
, tyhe film is never confusing
.
anderson
' s control over transitioning from one stroy to another story is masterful
. he also knows exactly when to cut to another subplot since not one of
" magnolia
' s
" scenes drag on too long
. any threee hour film that does not deliver even oen uninteresting scene is definitely worth recommending
. from the fascinating beginning to the risky
yet surprisingly satisfying ending the film just doesn
' t get boring
. it is obvious that
anderson put a lot of time into connecting earch subplot
. this is the ultimate game of six degrees of separation
. every character is connected to every other character by at the most two degrees
. for example
, cop john c
. reilly is connected tothe game show host phillip baker hall through hall
' s daughter melora walters who once went on a date with reilly
. the fatc that eahc character is so different from the others
yet so similar shows that there are universal pains that all classes
, races
,
and genders suffer
.
anderson
' s explanation to prove this point is both accurate
and convincing
. the only mistake
anderson made in trying to connect his characters was by making his actors all sing an aimee mann song simultaneously
. this was foolish not only because it was unbelievable annd hilariously erroneous
but also because it had a broadway musical feel to it
and this movie is about as far apart fomr your typical broadway muscial than you can get
. the performances in
" magnolia
" are perfection
. this is a classic example of flawess casting
and flawless ensemble acting
.
anderson allows many of hollywood
' s best supporting actors to blossom at what they dont best
, character acting
. all of the main characters infact each story are perfect because they are able to reveal more emotions
and attitudes in their brief time on the screen
then most movei stars can do in a feature length film
. worth noting is tom cruise
, who stepped out of his usual superficial starring role
and into a funny
but depressing tour de force performance
. he was probably noticed mroe than the other actors in the film by award givers because his role here is so much different
and impressive than those in the past
(
however any atcor in this film could be nominated fo best supporting actor without any complaints
) the only problem i had with the acting was that a fewd of the characters felt seriously edited down such as melinda dillon
' s character as phillip baker hall
' s wife
. she seemed to be thrown in towards the end
and i felt very little sympathy for her because i had not seen her enough earlier in the film
.
" magnolia
" uses several effective metaphors to discribe its characters
.
anderson has the talent to make the audience sympathetic towards numerous peple in only a few hours
. to see that
anderson is able to perfectly portray this many different types of people shows that he hasnt a keen sense of diversity
. diversity is what makes a director successful for a long period of time
. i predict a lot of diversity
and success from
anderson in the future
.