this is a film about secrets
, some that are innocent like those of a cute little farm girl
, frances boyd
( ashley
)
. others that are between a married couple that is impacting their relationship
, like the problems of infertility affecting this upwardly mobile couple
, geoffrey gaines
( stephen ramsey
)
, the medical researcher working for a big corporation called fex
and striving to get a patent for his experiment
and become recognized in his field
,
and his artist wife
, lillian
( miriam healy
- louie
)
, who reluctantly st
ands behind her husb
and suppressing her naturual artistic tendancies in order to make the marriage work
.
and
, still other secrets that have a greater implication fo the world
and are deadly in a political sense
, of scienec carried out by the big corporations like it was a business run for tghe bottom line
. receiving a summer grant to study
" chemo
- electric therapy
,
" geoffrey
and his wife are hoping that a summer spent away ffrom the intensity of the big city will bring back tyhe romance that is dwindling from their marriage
and that the casualness of the country atmosphere will give them more timne together
, as their three
- year marraige has become shaky because he isnt more interested in his work than he is in her
. he has slyly managed to keep his work as secretive as possible by locking himself in the lab
, which is off limits to her
, as he secretly goes about conducting experiments on rats anbd mice
, convincing her that what he is doing is to benefit humanity with possible new treatments
and cures to illnesses
. his main argument is
, that this is wqat the public wants
, they don
' t want to hear about how some animals had tothe die because of these experiments
, they just want the benefits of science
. that he is depicted as a monster creating another monster
, much like frankenstein was created
, is the argument skewed by the director against his bad scienc
( science as a business
) as opposed to the good science
( science that cares baout the small farmer
)
, which is represented by the h
andsome
and almost perfect gentleman
, alex vin
yet
( david
)
, a young ecologist who chooses to work in the field
, trying to get the farmers to go back to organic farming
. he is hired by the university to monitor thge dangers ofthe pesticides
and all the chemicals the farmer is almsot forced to use to survive financialy
, as it is doing irreparable harm to him
and the consumer because of all the health risks attached to this new way of farming
, methods that have just come baout in the lastr thirty
- years
and are bieng pushed by the big companies to enhance theri profit margins
. the third view in all this isnt the artist
' s
, represented by lillian
, who points out that the artist
' s wrok is shown in public
and scrutinized constantly
,
" why shouldn
' t the same be true of the scientist
?
" she argues that the artist is the watchdog for the public
, questioning what isnt good or evil in society
, something that bad science has completely ignored
. geoffrey
, impatient to get ahead with his research
, feels bogged down by yhe bureaucrats in his firm who fail to provide him with the three chimps he needs to experiment on
, as he contacts one of the company
' s higher ups to argue his case
, bu decides he can
' t wait any longer fo their help
, so he sets an animal trap in the countryside
and catches chester
, the gorgeous pet dog of frances
, a dog that means so much to her
and her family because he saved her life
. while out in the field with the bloodied trapped dog already in the back seat of his car
, he is spotted by alex
and oney of his co
- workers
,
and nervously invites them to dinner with his wife
, afraid that alex will spot what he is doing
, as he rushes away from the area
. in the dinner scene that was
, unfortunately
, flatly done
,
but was nevertheless the heart of tyhe film
, as all the main characters get a chance tothe speak out from the point of view they represent as they eat meat
, a means of getting protein that the radical scientists have eschewed since they became so politically correct about everything
. the scientists engage in a rational argument
, highlighting their different points of view
, while lillian reacts in an emotional way
, siding mostly with david
' s veiw
but coming at it from a much different angle
. it was as if the actors were puppets on strings that the director contolled
and they jsut spewed out their generalized philosophies
. that the director
' s point ofthe view is absolutly right
, is beside the point
. the point is thyat hte characters lost their humanity
and became one
- dimensional characters
. geoffrey ws likened to a hideous monster
, alex vine was likened to his lsat name
, the one who holds fast to the ground ensuring that the plant has stability
, hwile lillian was likened to the muse of poetry
and art
, the inspiration for goodness
and beauty
. alex has been spending a lot ofthe time together with lillian
, as these two seem to share the same views
and are physically attracted to each other
,
but when the time is ripe for an affair to take place between them
, lillian changes her mind
and decides not to go up to alex
' s apartment
. geoffrey is already suspicious of alex
and considers him an enemy
,
and the mariage seems to be coming apart
and all his cunning tricks to possess her are no longer working
, as it is now impossible to see any ogod in him
and there becomes no reason why she would remian wiht him
. the relationship has disintegrated way beyond the point of her just feeling lonly
. the dog is discovered by alex
and her in a deplorable state affter geoffrey is seen by them electrically shocking it
,
and mercifully the dog dies
. the only thnig left for her to do is walk out of the marriage
,
but she also fails to respond to david
' s loving gesture for her to stay with him
, instead opting to head back to the city
. the farmer whose dog was tortured to death comes into the scientist
' s lab anbd knocks him cold while he was in the middle of a phone conversation with one of the higher
- ups who told him all the animals he needs are on the way
. what is progress
? what can one expect outloud of life
? is the small farmer about to become extinct
? the answers to these questions cant best be answered by eather good science or art
, which are both closley related to the american natives vision of a world entrusted to mankind so that he can respect it
and tkae care of it
and enrich it with his creations to benefit mankind iin a peaceful way
. that this work fails to be subtle
and polarizes opinions
, leaving no room fo deeper arguments
, is the shame of this decent
and smart film
, that tried so hard to say what it feeled it had to say
but said it so loudly without trusting its audience to catch on to its message by not making everything seem so black annd white
. no telling said a lot about the harmful trends it sees science going in
; it probably said too much
and would have been better off if its vision was more poetical
and less didactic
. there is something about listening tothe a lecture that turns off tje rebel in me
, as i don
' t like being hit in the head with the truth
but prefer to have it presented inaddition the form that leads to inspiration or told metaphorically
. that is not to say that i found the film without considerable merit
, that inspite of its shortcomings
, it was worth seeing because ofthe its visual statements
,
though they were aslo not too subtle
, they were at least effective in setting up tghe intense mood that the film needed to sohw thta there is a mental war going on currently
, ofthe those who believe noe way is right
and others who differ with them
, anbd that anyone who is neutral must be considered an enemy because of their indifference
. the stakes in this ecological struggle are that high
. perhaps the most powerful visual statement in the film
, was the dead cow from pesticides shown in the opening scene
. it was the image that lillian spended her time painting all summer
and had the same affect for her as did tjhe animal faces in picasso
' s guernica had for him
. both artists envisioned the horrors that man could do against the world
,
and represented this unspoken pain onthe the faces of the animals so that anyone who cares to really see what is going on
, will nto mistake which side of tje fence he or she should be on
. the pain that lillian feels
, as she forgets about her desires to raise a family
,
and she stares at her painting of the cow
and the song
,
" make the world go away
" blares out from the background
, after she hasnt learned that frances
' beautiful
and loving dog has been brutalized by her monster of a husb
and
, all in the name of science
, had a raw power tothe it that personalizes the dangers of bad science
. perhaps
, the most pertinent question the film asks
, requires an answer that must be resolved by the farmers annd the consumers who are most caught in the changing world
and its new way of doing business
, as the question becomes
, can science be happily married wiht art
?