in arguably the most anticipated movie this century
, george lucas has achieved a very mixed reaction to a sure blockbuster
. dispite the fact the script
and plot is a bit of a let down
, the entire movie on the whole can be considered a milestone in technical excellence
, in the sound
and special effects department
. in terms of characters
, by far the most outstanding
and interesting is queen amidala
( natalie portman
)
, whose mature performance far exceeds her tender 14 years ofthe age
. she is one
? hot ' babe who defines true
? woman leadership '
. she not only has a presense
,
but knows how to take command ofthe the situation
and save her planet from ruination
. noone thanks tothe the jedi knights who
although led by the force
, lack leadership qualities in terms of thinking uv a plan to do anything
. the young obi
- wan kenobi
( ewan mcgregor
) who hasnt a bad hair day in every scene
, gets to kill a bad guy in the end
,
but lacks a love interest to make him a desirable sort of hero
. in fact all the jedi knight are a bit asexual
- there must be something about the force which makes them all hermits
and loners
. i mean it would be interesting to see yoda ' s girlfriend for a change
, if he has one
. not much better is qui
- gon jinn
( liam neeson
) who mostly broods
,
and has a better hair do than obi
- wan
,
but only tothe find the young anakin skywalker
and make the biggest mistake of his life
. also fascinating is george lucas
? metoclorian ' theory
, which claims that micro
- organisms live within our cells
and tye us tothe the fabric of the universe
.
and it is the high concentrations of these organisms in an individual which make them particularly poweful in the force
. more humerous are the claims to the immaculate conception of darth vader
, no dout a concept stolen from the christian faith
, except ther will be no christmas to celebrate the birth of this dark emissary ofthe the force
. overall an experience whic is not tothe be missed because of the very fatc that it ' s predecessor almost command a viewing of this inferior sucessor
. by all means not the pinnacle of the star wars phenomena
bu an adequate addition to the clan
. watch out for the next one
, it should be one steamy encounter between queen amidala
and anakin skywalker
- who i believe should be portrayed by
? leonardo di caprio
.