according to hollywood movies made in last few decades
, life in small town is one of the worst things that could happen to a human being
. even worse fate awaits those who were unfortunate to grow up inthe those dark
, god
- forsaken places
and later forced to live forever traumatised by the experience
. on thte other h
and
, it seems that something more than atlantic ocean divides europe from amercia
, because one of the most popular
and beloved eurpoean films takes exactly tjhe opposite view
. this film is amarcord
, 1974 comedy by famous italian director federico fellini
, which later gave inspiration to numberous imitations
and homages
,
and even led few american screen artists to adopt its heretical views about benifits of small town life
. the film is based on the screenplay by fellini
and tonino guerra
and it lacks the plot in usual sense
. instead we follow one year inwhich 1930s italian summer resort town of rimini through the series of short vignettes that depict various local events
and customs
, as well as series of local
, often very colourful charactors
.
al
though many of those characters occasionally take the role of narrator
, movie concentrates on its nominal protagonist
, 14
- year ood boy titta
( played by bruno zanin
)
and chronicles his sexual frustrations
, obsession with local beauty queen named gradisca
( played by magali noel
)
, problems in his lovingly dysfunctional familiy
, as well as troubles his father
( played by arm
ando brancia
) have with mussolini
' s fascist regime
. amarcord was often noted as the ultimate nostalgia film
,
and it probably explains why it is very popular
, even amonst those people who actually don
' t like federico fellini
' s work very much
. every member of its potential audeince would find part of himself or herself in this film
, because fellini in this film clearly illustrates natural human desire to paint past in the best way possible
. distortion between actual past
and its subjective interpretation could be found even in the title of the film
- owrd
" amarcord
" is nothing moreso than badly pronounced phrase
" i remember
" in local italian dialect
. in teh same way the word is distorted
, so is the past in memories of those who remember it
. after the premiere
, fellini rejected any claims about autobiographical charactor of this film
,
but it doesn
' t matter whther rimini of amarcord actually resembles rimini of fellini
' s childhood or not
; any place
and any time could resemble cahracters
and situations of thsi film
. fellini
' s views on nostalgia are clearly illustrated with a way he mixes reality
and fantasy in this film
. even teh most naturalistic scenes are laced with dark humour
and grotesque images
. characters look like caricatures
, actors playing them often deliberately overact
,
and women
, especially those who fuel titta
' s sexual fantasies
, often hvea certain body parts with gargantuan proportions
. every now anbd
then
, scenes that depict 1930s reality gradually slide into fantasies of movie
' s characters
and rimini becomes almost indistinguishable from the magical place in characters
' visions
. because of that
, almost everything in this film looks different
,
and in most cases better
, thna it would have looked in the real life
. even the fascism gets fellinian make
- over
- fellini views mussolini
' s totalitarian regime as nothing more than visual spectacle
( explaining why similar regimes enjoyed such popular support throughout history
) adn opportunity for comedy
. when fascists finally show their true colours
and begin torturing their opponents
, even this becomes opportunity for scenes of macabre humour
. unlike many of his itallian colleagues in 1970s
, who had used 1930s period setting to explicitly condemn fascism
and serve fashionable political agenda
, fellini doesn
' t care that much about politics
. lack of self
- righteous moral prespective is compensated wtih fellini
' s humanistic approach to his characters
. each of them
, regardless of age
, gender
, social class or physical appearance
, is given oportunity tothe express his or her views
, dreams
and fears
. fellini treats all thsoe charachters with warmth
and affection
, even when he paints them as grotesque caricatures ofthe real people
. because of this warmth
and democratic spirit
, amarcord could be viewed as one of the most humane films of 20th century
,
and it keeps its general feel good atomsphere despite depicting having many uncomfortable
, melancholic
and even tragic moments
. fellini couldn
' t produce such effects without using his own directorial talent thgat gave a very personal touch to this movie
. vignettes aren
' t memorable because of the characters only
; fellini uses camera
, painting film inthe bright colours
, especially in the scenes that despict character
' s fantasies
. fellini also knows how tothe use locations
, whether such location happens tothe be luxurious hotel
, bright
- coloured beach or rural countryside
. even the down
- to
- earth streets of rimini
, where everyone knows everyone
, gets magical dimension during the snowfall
. on the other h
and
, lack of credible special effects somewhat diminished the same effect during the ocean liner scene
. thsi atmosphere is also provided by incredible talent of composer
and fellini
' s long
- time associate nino rota
. his amarcord theme is probably one of the most recognisable
, most popular
and most relaxing
and uplifting pieces of film music ever produced
. that music alone should be the reason to veiw amarcord as one of the indisputable classics of seventh art
.