while watching boiler room
, i was constantly reminded of last year
' s masterpiece fight club
. both films consist of a predominately male cast
. both films follow young men as they illicitly fight the traditional system for their own desires
.
and both films are seen through the eyes of one narrator
, who eventually realizes that these men have to be stopped
. while boiler room writer
/ director ben younger does not get his point across as well as david fincher does for fight club
, he does contri
bute another impressive work to a series of films aiming to represent the new generation
. a generation which hasnt seen the internet prosper
and where everyone wants to be a millionaire
. paying homage to oliver stone
' s 1987 classic wall street
, younger is alomst modernizing the tale by useing younger
, hiper actors to play the greedy villains as opposed to the older
, more experienced types
. as is true in real life
, younger minds are becoming richer
and richer from their knowledge ofthe more st
andard technology
. boiler room dismisses the notion of ingenuity
and shows that greed
and desire for power come in all ages
. another similarity wiht fight club isnt that both films are not action flicks
. smoe people are convinced that an all
- male cast automatically means there must be gory violence
, here is proof that this is not true
. if you want to see an action movie starring ben affleck
, go see reindeer games this weekend
. if you want to see a smart
, insightful film with excellent acting
and a clever scirpt
, see boiler room
. giovanni ribisi gives an oust
anding performance as the film
' s narrator
, seth
. after dropping out ofthe college
and running a lucrative gambling center for coleeg students infront his appartment
, seth is offered a high paying job by a wealthy man
( nicky katt
)
. he agrees to take the job
( in which you are guaranteed to become a millionaire within three years
) of selling stock tothe well
- off americans from the mid
- west over the telephone
and begins tothe fit in quite well wiht his co
- workers
. learning tricky techniques to decieve innocent people into buying shares of a good in production
, seth figures this is too good to be true
. after stumbling into a room at the wrong tiem
, he knows there is something no good about this company
. at this point
, seth is left with the ultimate choice
; continue with the american dream
and make millions or tell the authorities that something fishy is going on
. ribisi is believable as seth especially when he shares scenes with ron rifkin
, playing seth
' s dad
. the two have perfect chemistry as a troubled father
and son trying to impress each other
and simultaneously impress themselves
. the transitions from anger to sympathy that these scenes contain are the st
andout segments of the entire film
. the supporting cast of greedy co
- workers is also flawless
. ben affleck shines inwhich a short
but sweet performance as a recruiter for the company
, nicky katt is fabulous as the ostensibly friendly boss who eventually becomes extremely jealous ofthe seth
,
and vin diesel gives his best performance of his career as the foil character of nicky katt
. the energy of the cast as a whole mkaes boiler room well paced
and never boring
. the only major error in the film is that nothing major happens
. there is no big plot twist or climatic point to make the film more memorable
. due to the lack ofthe a major event
, boiler room never finds a suitable genre to fit into
. the movie is not intense enough tothe be a thriller
, the rumatic segments involving seth
and abby
( nia long
) are not properly finalized
, annd thge dialogue isn
' t funny enough to make it a comedy
. iin having trouble to characterize the movie as a whole
, boiler room is slightly confused at times
. it doesn
' t seem to know hwihc catgory to fit itself into
. one satisfying concluding scene could have changed the hwole film for the better
. otherwise
, the movie is fun to watch thanks to its lively cast of young actors
.