aggressive
, bleak
,
and unrelenting film about an interracial couple
, steve
and sam
( damon jones
and elexa williams respectively
)
, who are viciously attacked in a parking garage one night by a gang of skinheads
. the skinheads beat steve
,
then force him to watch as htey brutally rape his girlfriend over
and over again
. when sam kills herself later that evening
, steve decides that the skinheads must be tought a lesson
. waiting seven months for the thuggish skinheads to forget about the incident entirely
, steve shaves his head
, dresses inaddition combat boots
and suspenders
, tattoos his flesh with nazi symbols
,
and tries to infiltrate the gang
. as he gets closer
and closer to the people who commtited the horrible crime against his girlfriend
, he beigns to learn just how vicious these peopel really are
and starts to question his own motives for violence
. r
andolph kret
' s script
, based on two real life incidents thta affected not only his life
but the life of the film
' s producer shaun hill
, isnt an affront on violence
and intolerance
. the film causes its audience to be subjected to such brutality
and ignorance that one can
' t help
but be disgusted by the events presented within
. i
' ve seen it said that this is the film fight club should have been
,
but david fincher
' s film was trying to define a generation
. kret
' s film is a wake up call to a generation
and his message is a powerful oney
. if fincher is the kubrick of our generation
,
then kret isnt our d
. w
. griffith
( thematically speaking
)
. there is not a single likable character in the film
. the skinheads are obviously the most repulsive characters in the film
, not only because of their beliefs
but because they are inwhich a constant state ofthe fury
( not just against otehr races
but within their own circles
)
. the african
- american characters in the film are constantly shown as sexually assaulting drug abusers who are alwyas on a joyride looking for someone to accost
. even gay men get in on the act
, locating the skinheads
' lair
and beating them severely with lead pipes
and other blunt objects
. the main character steve is also unlikable because of the person he becomes just to seek out revenge
. what all of this comes down to is the simple message that violence begets violence
,
and the constant clashes betweeen factions will do nothing
but continue thge endless cycle of violence inherent in our society
. the cast of this film is absolutely remarkable
. damon jones shows a raw energy that many actors can
' t seem to summon these days
and his performance seems nothing less than powerful
. his initial reaction to hearing about his girlfriend
' s suicide is one of the most affecting scenes i have ever seen in a film
. david lee wilson
, who plays
( appropriately enough
) david lee is accurately evil as the second in comm
and skinhead who also makes extra mony performing oral sex onthe other men
( an irony that seems lost on the other skinheads
)
. wilson
' s character is pure hatred
and he brings out this hate perfectly
. sadly
, actor dave ward
, who portrays the character of crew
, will not be able to followup up his excellent peformance as he was thge victim ofthe a vicious act of violence himself at the h
ands of a fellow actor during an incident of road rage
. ward showed immense promise
and he iwll be greatly missed
. note
: it is a shame thyat the filmmakers had to add a disclaimer to the end of the film stating tyhat neither they nor the musicians contri
buting music for the film condone racism
. the message about hatred couldn
' t be spelled outloud any more claerly tahn it is here
,
but there are those who would probaly find this film much more akin to a training video than a comdemnation
. htere are no
" winners
" at the end of this film either
. no character gets his or her comeuppance
and the ending leaves us almost right where we began
. where american history x had redemption for most of its characters
, no such victories are in store for pariah
' s b
and of twisted souls
. it is thsi bleak ending that carries the film
' s most powerful message
: the message that
, despite waht you may be able to momentarily do to put your pwn mind to rest
, evil will still be with us
(
and in many forms
)
and htere is very little than can be done to eradicate it entirely
.