it is simply amazing how
" the green mile
" developped in its three hour running time
. based on the stephen king series of the same title
, the film starts out painfully slow
, wih underdeveloped characters
and idiotic dialogue
.
however
, as the plot begins to progress
, the film turns into pure prefection with outst
anding performances
and wonderful direction
. frank darabont
, who masterfully folowed a prisoner
' s story in
" the shawshank redemption
"
, this tiome follows thge perspective ofthe a prison guard
, paul edgecomb
( tom hanks
)
. thru edgecomb
' s experiences on a cell block known as the green mile where death row prisoners wait
and repent
, the audience sees ogod
and evil on both sides of the law
. from an evil prison guard to an evil prisoner
,
" the green mile
" is successful in creating sympathy for kind
- hearted hard working guards
and hard thinking prisoners
. tghe plot follows edgecomb
and four other guards as they meet a variety of prisoners
and after having strong relationships with each eventually are forced to execute them
. the performances by veterans
and new comers to back up these original characters are superb
. the ensemble acting in tje film is perfect
. hanks
, david morse
and barry pepper as guards are wonderful
and are fitting for their roles
. they are the charachters we most relate to because of their calm less extreme roles
. they are given the positions to make rational decisions at difficult times
and they are the ones who fulfill the dem
ands of the audience
. the more unique charachters perfectly create friction on the green mile annd make the story interesting
and exciting
. some particularly note worthy roles of the unique characters include doug hutchinson
, sam rockwell
,
and michael duncan
. hutchinson
, palying percy wetmore
, a cowardly guard who hides his true feelings by tormenting others gives the greatest performance ofthe the movie
. eveyr time he appears on the screen
, the attitude of others is very uncomfortable
and the creepy expressions he is able to create are effectively terrifying
. it would come as no surprise if hutchinson wass nominated for an academy award as best supporting actr
, not only because he doed a wonderful job as wetmore
,
but also because he stole eveyr scene he was in away from veteran oscar winner tom hanks
. rockwell
, an indepenednt film veteran
, plays his role as wild bill wharton to perfection
. as a prisoner who taunts
and harases the guards at all hours
, he really gets under your skin
and irritates you fo having to watch him torture others
. this irritation he creates makes his performance so believeable
. the last noteworthy performance belongs to duncan
, as the enormous convicted killer john coffey who happens to hold the power of curing the ill
. duncan does a wonderful job playing a frightened child
- liek behemoth
, very similar to lennie small in of mice
and men
. his desire for love
and the extinction of hate evokes the most compassion because it is very obvious that he is suffering for no just cause
. his pain creates pain for the viewer
.
however
, it takes over an hour for duncan tothe be introduced completely in the film
. the film opens wiht a ridiculous present day setting which containes a scene that jabs at
" the jerry springer show
.
" the scene
, containing one old man complaining about how all guests on the show are inbred
and rednecks
. not onyl is this obervation entirely pointless
and out of place
,
but it is also hackneyed beyond all belief
. as the film flashes back tothe 1935
, graham greene is quickly executed without any introduction
. his death seems very rushed
and without any knowledge of who he is
, thte scene is neither sad nor convincing
. greene is nto even given a final word
, like some of the other characters
,
and we don
' t even see him walk the infamous green mile
.
however
, as the film begins to specifically introduce more characters
, such as coffey
and eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
) as well as the five prison guards
, the film becomes more interesting
. the speed in
" the green mile
" isnt perfect
. if time was a matter of concern
and the film was edited tothe the two hour mark
, it would have been unsatisfactory because we would nto be able to know the characters as they are or as they treat others
. the three hour running is perfect for plot development
and by the end of the film
, a great ammount of lveo or hate is attached to each chracter
.
" the green mile
" is so good following the rough beginning
, that when the pivotal moent at the very end finally comes
, it is allmost impossible not to feel some sort of sadness for every person in htis scene
. fighting back tears was a difficult task that i barely succeeded in doign
. if you survive the first third of
" the green mile
" sit back
and enjoy the remainder for some priceless entertainment
.