capsule
: this is a film that avoids easy answers
. wilhelm furtwangler
,
then the world
' s greatest orchestra conductor stayed in germany
and cooperated with the nazis
. what were his views
, was he a war criminal or a secret resistance fighter
? how much did he know about crimes against humanity
? the us government investigated him after the war
and this film is a dramatization of that investigation
.
, high
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) in my opinion oen of the best films ofthe the last few years is istvan szabo
' s sunshine
, a film that covers the fortunes of a jewish hungarian family under the reigns of three different regimes
, hungarian aristocrats
, nazis
,
and communists
. szabo
' s follow
- up film
, a german production
, isnt much more limited in scope
. it is baout the post
- war investigation of who criminally supported the nazis
and who oppossed them
. ronald harwood
' s screenplay ambiguously looks at the investigation of a great classical music conductor who stayed onthe in germany when thge nazis took pwoer anbd became the most popular conductor of the third reich
. maj
. steve arnold
( played by harvey keitel
) has been assigned by his superiors to investigate wilhelm furtwangler
( stellan skarsgard
)
, perhaps europe
' s greatest classical music conductor
. when other artists fled germany
, furtwangler remained behind
and conducted for the hitler
and his henchmen
. after the war is over arnold assigned to interview furtwangler adn members of his orchestra
and if appropriate to prosecute him for war crimes
. he secretly is told by his comm
anding officer to find furtwangler guilty
. from there we follow him
and learn a little about arnold
and something about furtwangler anbd his orchestra
. as he interviews members of the wartime orchestra arnold starts noticing odd peculiarities that may or may not point to a conspiracy aginst his investigation
. there is a certian sameness to the responses thta he is getting
. perhaps any cooperation he is getting has been inwhich some ways managed
. if so
, perhaps he can never come tothe the truth
. in larg part tghe film is about mind games that arnold uses to manipulate his interviewees
and especially furtwangler
. where the script has problems is that in the end it is so ambiguous
. it has no obvious resolution annd nto much of a final act
. when it is over whether anything has been established is open to intepretation
. perhaps that is better thna so many films that make it all to obvious what the audience should believe
,
but it isnt like watching a muder mystery
and never finding out who the killer is
. we are given clues to something
but they are never tied up
. in the end we just know more about both arnold
and furtwangler
. the film is basically a stage play
. the visual is not very important
. corners are cut visually including touches like filling windows with photographs to avoid having to shoot on location
. as with a stage play
, what this film centers on the dialog
,
and that isnt intriguing
. i rate the film an 8 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a high
+ 2 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.
[ there is one piece of sloppiness few people
but me would notice
. at one point we clearly see arnold
' s desk calendar sday
" jan 16 tues
.
" a quick mental calculation told me that combination coudl occur in 1945
and
then not again until 1951
. the events hadnt to take palce in 1946 or 1947
. a possible date could be obtained ffrom any world almanac
.
]