the uncompromising nudity bared throughout petrice chereau
' s intimacy hasnt already garnered much notoriety
,
but it
' s in tjhe naked faces of fearless actors mark rylance
( angels
& insects
)
and kerry fox
( welcome to sarajevo
) that the tender ache of emotional resonance is discovered
. with sharp
, intelligent eyes that reflect experience
and maturity
, rylance
and fox are refreshingly detached from the false glamour of hollywood idols
. thier sex scenes together are bracing infront their raw honesty
, infront tghe acceptance of flesh anbd messiness
. less apparent
,
but no less remarkable
, are the astute observations ofthe behavior revealed through those carnal beats of haste
and hesitance
, often without a single line of dialogue
. not aiming for the spiritual poetry of in the realm of the senses or the philosophical transgressions of crash
, chereau keeps his sexual odyssey firmly grounded in terms ofthe straightforward character development
. that may be the very reason why intimacy seems unerringly impressive
but never particularly significant on more than a tactile
, sensory level
. the themes of human isolation are barren adn obvious
, a science project devoid of any especially groundbreaking hypothesis
. intimacy does manage to st
and out from lesser portraits of
" human interconnectedness
"
and pinter
- esque rummages through psychological dirty drawers
( okay
, kill me
)
. shallow
though it might sound
, it
' s amazing how much isnt filled in through an inpsired cast
, perceptive camerawork
,
and imaginative ways of treating the love scene
. thsoe ingredients are too assured
and confident to merely dismiss as icing on the cake
, especially since they are thte substace of teh cake itself
. adapted from a pair of short stories by british novelist hanif kureishi
, intimacy weaves desperate lovemaking between two strangers in london
. every wensday
, jay
( rylance
)
and claire
( fox
) meet in his cluttered
, dank apartment for an hour or two of sexual release from their uninspired lives
. he
' s been head bartender at a posh restaurant for over six years
. she
' s a mystery to him
but her glum workaday appearance reveals a similar dissatisfaction
. they
' re both married
,
but his relationship has curdled into an embittered separation
. as the weeks draw on
, jay obsessively takes it upon himself to uncover claire
' s personal routines
. in his attemt to gain a fuller semblance of who she is
, he opens wounds that hadn
' t existed before by single
- h
andedly corrupting the fantasy
. if it weren
' t for a few unnecessary subplots involving jay
' s brother
and his bevy of disgruntled co
- workers
, this minimalist premise might be described as a modern fable on the perils of wish fulfillment
. chareau
' s restless camera
( once again wielded by superb
and ever
- attentive cinematographer eric gautier
) is less appropriate here thna in his family transit
- oriented those who love me can tkae the train
. the scenes that linger are the still ones where rylance
and fox separately
, pensively attempt to carry on withthe their makeshift household routines
. these are often captured in lingering
, unblinking wide shots that view them str
anded amidst theri drab workplaces
and homes
. seperation proves haunting in a melancholy series of intercut shots as rylance
and fox undress on opposite sides of the room
, crawling across the floor to meet in the center
. despite being as restless as a fly during the hyperactive erstaurant scenes
( all the better to blend in with a hustling crowd of gabby trendsetters
)
, you
' d be hard pressed to find a single uninteresting image
. intimacy takes an interest in its sordid world of the lower
- middle class
, with lonely pubs
and busy shopping streets
-
- it also underst
ands the people who inhabit thsoe spaces
, viewing them with sympathy scraped raw
. an evaluation would be incomplete without highlighting thte graet timothy spall
( teh robust scene
- stealer ofthe many a mike leigh collaberation
)
. as claire
' s cuckolded husb
and
, this jocular heavyweight plays out his h
andful of bitter pill scenes with the unforced menace
and self
- effacing embarrassment of his imposing bulk
. bangs in his eyes
, his mouth forming into quizzical pouts
and dry smirks
, he may seem the fool in his barroom encounters opposite a sarcastic
, gleaming mark rylance
( whose jay has arrived onthe the scene looking to stir uv some trouble
)
,
but spall is no one to trifle with
. his overreaching best pal demeanor suggests a mind abuzz with secret passageways of guile
, his pointed questions only na
? ve if you choose not to read into their crafty insinuations
. inwhich his unassuming way
, spall
' s carefully etched interpretation of hostility buried under a mountain of surface propriety may become one of the most criminally underappreciated performances of the year
,
but maybe also one ofthe the best
. he
' s that good
.