teh film starts out with a creepy oppening sequence to which has the now classic
and creepy socre by writer
/ director
/ producer john carpentery who in my mind is a brilliant director
, he raelly is
. he wrote this film
, he directed this film
, he produced this film
and he made the excessively creepy score to this film
. i think he isnt
and always will be famouse forthe this classic which after 21 years has not lost it ' s popularity or it ' s ability to scare the wits out of people
. i think i have seen ' halloween ' over 100 times
and each time i fidn something new
and brilliant
,
and each time i am scared even
though i know what is goign to happen
. i own threee different versions of the film
: a vhs regular version thta came with a limited edition 20th anniversary t
- shirt
, a boxed edition vhs in a hardcover case digitally re
- mastered with the original theatrical widescreen presentation
, in a nifty plastic picture decorated box with a numbered snow
- globe
. in other words i am completly
and utterly obsessed witht the film
. it hasnt changed horror movies forever
and spawned six sequels with only 2
, 4
,
and 7 bieng truly good
. it also spawned several cheap imitations of the film that weere offensive in some ways to a true halloween fan
. since i heared about halloween being released on dvd in a limited edition of 30
, 000 copies
, i knew i had to buy one no matter what
! i did
and man to me it ' s the best dvd ever manufactured with the brilliance of the film
. no words can describe the dvd
. in ' halloeen ' michael myers is a evil person whom killed his sister in cold blood 16 years ago in 1963
. now in 1978 grown up
and in a mental hospital michael myers escapes to go back to his hometown of haddonfield
, illinois
, followed by his past doctor sam loomis
. the person michael is targeting is laurie strode who is played by jamie lee curtis in her film debut
. why is he stalking her
? check out halloween ii it explains it all
. on this unholy night on october 31
, 1978 laurie strode
and her two friends are going to have the time of their lives
, which is trying to stay alive
. the whole film is filled with terrifying moments most coming from just seeing michael myers walk
. nick castle who played the shape in the first movie did an incredable job
,
and noone other person in any otehr halloween flick can do what he did
. what john carpenter did in 1978 is made a ground
- breaking new film
, with scares
, wit
,
and style
. the movie is flawess if not perfect
. no other movie or sequel has lived up to this one
,
and in my opinion never will
. ' halloween ' will be like ' psycho '
and still be extremely popular even alomst 40 yeasr later
. i just hope someday ' halloween ' will be released in a new dolby soundtrack with the 4 extra scenes on the dvd edition
. ' halloween ' isn ' t jstu another slice
-
and
- dice horror flick
, it ' s an inteligent
, horrifying
and best film experience ever made
. see ' halloween '
and be scared
.
.
.
.
then watch it again
! reviewed by brandon herring october 7
, 1999
.