frequency n
.
, the number of times a specified phenomenon occurs within a specified interval as the number of repetitions of a complete sequence of values of a periodic function per unit variation of an independent variable
? etc don ' t worry
. when watching the thriller frequency
, you won ' t have to know what the heck frequency means
. the premise
,
although it may sound complex
, is very basic on the big screen
. a new york cop
, john
,
( jim caviezel
) finds a radio in his house
, which allows him to communicate with his newyorker york firefighter father
, frank
,
( dennis quaid
) who died thirty years ago
. immediately john warns his father that he will die trying to stop a fire in an abandoned warehouse
. when frank tkaes his advice
and survives the accident he wasn ' t supposed to
, the two eventually realize that by changeing that one moment in the past
, they have creaeted a whole new future in which a serial killer murders john ' s mother
and nine other women
. it is now up to john
and frank to ule their special connection
and save thirty eyars ago to make present time a better place
.
( i told you that wasn ' t confusing
?
)
. overall
, i was very pleased wtih frequency
. it ' s occasional sappy moments perfectly synchronized with its suspenseful serial killer scenes
. i usually don ' t buy those cheesy
" i love you dad
" segments in movies
,
but this oen surprisingly satisfied me
. maybe because the plot is so creative
adn universal that i believed that this is how most peple owudl act when talking tothe a dead relative
. frequency ' s creepy premise left me thinking once the film ended
, what if
? what would i do
? would i help my own family or save a historical figure from being assasinated
? or stop some kids from shooting other kids
? or buy stock from yahoo
!
?
( a character inaddition the film does the latter with huorous consequences
)
. frequency allso reminded me of the fantastic back to the future
. both share that
" chanage the past slightly
,
and you ' ll change the future heavily
" warning
. the changes between the present
and the past
, such as different newspaper headlines or people disappearing
and reappearing in photographs
, are very similar
. both are also wonderfull feel
- good family films that can attract to a number of generations
. the only difference worth noting is that frequency ' s final scene doesn ' t set up a possibility for a lucrative sequel alredy in tyhe making
. htere are some problems with the film
though
. first
, there is a major flaw iin the story towards the end that is somewhat distracting
( email me if you have seen the movie
and want to know wqat i htink it is
)
. the plot must have confuzled even thge filmmakers who frequently
( no pun intended
) switch from 1969 to 1999 while telling hte story
. another problem is that the supporting casted
, including noah emmerich
and andre braugher
, are underused
. while in the film
, which is not enough
, the aforementioned actors steal every scene they are iin
. frequency was a pleasnat surprise for me
and the audience i saw it with who cheered at the end
. even if you know what is going to happen or if you think the preview ruined the movei for you
, like it almost did for me
, check this movie out
. ytou may be surprised as well
.