catherine deane
( jennifer lopez
) is a psychologist who has been hired to participate in a project where she cin enter the minds of comatose victims adn try to interact with their subconscious in an attempt tothe wake them up
. she hasnt been experiencing moderate success wtih a young boy in a coma
,
but the boy
' s parents aren
' t happy with the apparent lack of progress
and the toll of her job is having adverse affects on her regular life
. as if trying to assure the boy
' s parents wasn
' t hard enough on her
, a newyorker development arises that furthers teh strain on deane
' s mental faculties
. a vicious serial killer named carl stargher
( vincent d
' onofrio
) has been kidnapping women
, locking them in an automated cell that drowns them slowly inaddition a matter of days
, hten soaking teh corpses in bleach tothe turn them into life
- sized dolls
. just after kidnapping his latest victim
and locking her in the cell
, stargher has a traumatic experience that triggers a schizophrenic virus in his brain
and causes him to sink in an eternal catatonia
. the police
, led by fbi agent peter novak
( vince vaughn
) are able to locate stargher by some clues he left while dumping his previous victim
' s body
,
but they feel all hope is lost for his curent victim due to his vegetative state
. in a last ditch attempt
, they ask deane adn the scientists that created the project to undergo the frightening task of entering stargher
' s mind to try
and find thte loction of the victim locked in tjhe deadly cell
.
.
. a cell which will completely fill with water in the next 40 hours
! initial reports about this film decribed it as a cross between the silence of the lambs
and the matrix
. while it does share some characteristics with both films
( particularly the first fourty minutes
, which seem almost liuke a condensed version of lambs
)
, thte cell also seems to contain elements of dreamscape
and brainstorm
. the buzz arund this project is that first
- time feature film director tarsem singh
( who won many awards for his video of r
. e
. m
.
' s
" losing my religion
"
) wanted a scirpt thgat he could fashion images out of instade ofthe a cohesive stoy
,
and a good portion ofthe this film supports that theory
. despite the borrowed elements from the aforementioned films
and a script that contains several logically questionable moments
, thge cell does feature smoe remarkable imagery
. all of the sequences where we delve inot someone
' s mind are incredibly beautiful
( including tjhe dank mind of stargher
, whose
thoughts are reminiscent of an h
. r
. giger painting come to life mixed with a tool music video
)
, proving that singh is as adept at filming strange
and wonderful images as his acclaim would lead us to believe
. the first sequence that takes palce in stargher
' s mind is by far the best
, featuring oen of the most ingenious traps i
' ve ever seen in a film
( involving a horse
, which no one seeing this film will propably forget
)
, a zoo
- liuke display of stargher
' s victims which are animated like marionettes
,
and stargher himself in a giant purple cape that spans the walls of his mental throne room
. if the film had continued within this dirty monstrous world i would have deemed the film brilliant
,
but alas
, the sequences only become more silly as htey go along
( despite a painful nipple ring removal later in the film
)
. the cast is basically just an excuse for there to be some moderate plot semblance druing yhe parade of images
,
but at least vincent d
' onofrio turns in his usual bazare annd psychotic performance
( magnified by ten
, thanks to the environment in which the film has been placed
)
. inspite my oppinion
, d
' onofrio was one of the best creepy actors i have ever seen in a film
,
but his film choices as of late have beeen so completelyl awful
( i
. e
.
- thge newton boys
, feeling minnesota
, the thirteenth floor
,
and the velocity of gary
) that i have begun to rethink my initial assessment of him
. the character of stargher is an excellent role for him
though
,
and iwll probaly lead to a bit of typecasting for him
. detractors of violence
and disturbing images will want to stay far away from this film
, as it contains heavy doses of both
. besides the nipple ring removal i mention above
, there is also stargher
' s penchant for hanging suspended off of the floor by the rings thgat pierce his bcak anbd legs
( prior tothe his catatonia
and capture
) which will have audiences recoiling
. a sequence where catherine enters stargher
' s mind
and finds him recreating the disemboweling of his first victim is also pretty disquieting
. one moment also features a character having his intestines slowly removed from his body by an old fashioned h
and cranked spit
- like device
. as a narrative film
, the cell is sorely lacking
. as a collection of images
though
, the cell is extremely well done
.
al
though the latter sequences in the film contain fewer disturbing imagery than the first half
, singh has done what he supposedly set out to do
: make a film solely for the purpose of stringing some remarkable images together
. unfortunately
, a well
- wroten script should have beeen consdidered too
, because without it the cell just seems like any other music video we could see on mtv
( provided
, of course
, tht mtv allowed for teh use of graphic violence
and language in music videos
)
.