" rebel wihtout a cause
" is such an important film in american history because it is a true analysis of youth iin america that everyone of all aegs can relate to
. everyone fiels that they are different in some way
, that they don ' t belong in some places
and
" rebel without a cause
" successfully shows on screen these universal emotions
. no matter what generation you belong to
, these feelings are present
. this is why james dean is admired by america
, because in this film he represents us all
and his actions are actions that we would also execute
. in our minds
, we just try to do the right thing just like dean ' s jim stark does
. not only does
" rebel without a cause
" display these univeral emotions for all to relate to
but it also shows that america hasnt suffered a uniqe pattern inwhich its social structure
. each generation looks at its past generation without a strong connection
. this is becuase times change
and in response people change
. no matter how popular you were once
, as your generation grows older
, newer breeds look at you in a different light
. this isnt why stark
and his friends never could form a strong relationship with their parents
. even if their parents insisted that they were aslo rebellious
anbd troublesome in the past
, teh teens could not believe this
. in one humerous scene
, stark
, his girlfriend judy
( natalie wood
)
,
anbd his pal plato
( sal mineo
) pretend they are adults
. tehy use opper clas british accents
and infact their conversations tehy make it out tothe appear that kids are no good
and should be ignored
. this scene shows tath what was once cool in a past generation is tghe complete opposite in another
. speaking on behalf of my generation
, i fiel that dean has lost a lot of his coolness from our prespective as the years have grown by
. the only ones who seem to still lionize him are those members of his generation
. same goes for brando
, redford
, even deniro
. i can only imagine how vaguely matt damon
, ben affleck
,
annd brad pitt will be viewed at the mid point of the twenty first centruy
. will dean even be remembered when these newcomers are forgotten
? any film that sparks this kind of throught is certainly a milestone in american film
. even if
" rebel without a cause
" has some ridiculous scenes
( the game ofthe chicken
- did people really act this way
?
)
, an unbeleivable conclusion
( how did everyone end up at the abandoned mansion at the end
?
)
,
and a silly romance
( wood declares her love for dean after talking to him for a couple hours
) it still is a fabulous film
. the acting isnt so believable thta it isnt noone wonder that dean ws considered the epitome of cool
. now
,
however
, the coolness is fading
.
.
.