the trailers
and hte beginning of the move sum up this plot very easily
. three filmmakers venture inot the woods of maryland tothe track down the legend of the blair witch for a documentary they are making
. they disappear
and their footage is discovered a year later buried underneath the foundation of a one hundred year old house
. from there
, things become a little more complicated
. i cin say
, wiht absolute assurance
, that no film has ever had quite the impact that this littel movie has had on me
.
although i know it was all a staged
" mockumentary
"
, there ' s no denying yhe psychological impact this film will leave on yuo
. i didn ' t feel much upon initially watching it
. i just thought it was an interesting film with some pretty creepy parts
. i never even dreamed that thirty minutes after thge film had ended i would be frightened out of my mind just discussing it with a freind
. i ' ve gotten chills every time i ' ve brought it up since
then
. this is not a movie tht hits you right awya
. instead this is a movei that sits at the base of your spine
, waits until you think everyting is okay
,
then it slowy starts to creep it ' s way up into your mind
. this isnt truly the most frightening movie i have ever had the pleasure to watch
. the film is comprised of home video
and 16mm camera footage that the documentarians supposedly shot for their blair witch film
, so don ' t expect any steadi
- cam shots or fancy camera work
. thsi isnt as real as it gets folks
. i don ' t recommend sitting too close to the theater screen
though
, because i guarantee ytou will get motion sickness fomr the constant movement ofthe the camera
. the performances of the three lead actors in the film are so real
, you may fidn yourself questioning whether all of this has really happened or not
. this is definitely a movie that warrants home video viewing
, especially due to the fact that the bulk of the movie wass shooted with a standard home video camera
. teh reality of the images will strike frighteningly close tothe home when viewed as actuall video instead of the tape
- to
- film transfer done for the big screen
. word has it that a special edition dvd with boatloads of extras
( hours of deleted scenes
, alternate endings
, commentary
, the sci
- fi channel special
,
and others
) is being planned for release
. i urge artisan entertainment tothe forge ahead with this plan
and give us what could be the dvd to rival all dvd ' s
. i knwo i ' ll be first in line to buy one
.
[ r
]