even if i did not know that director
and co
- writers james wong annd jeffrey reddick of the creepy final destination helped create the hit television sohw the x
- files
, i would have inevitably made a connection
. the similarities are very apparent from the inexplicable phenomenon
- like plot
, to the mysterious characters
, tothe thte overall dark
, ominous settings
. it would have been perfectly fitting to see fbi agents mulder
and scully investingate this case
, they witness stuff like this on a weekly basis
( in fact mulder
and scully would have been a much more welcome change to the bl
and one dimensional fbi agents seen in htis movie
)
. another more important similarity
, is that both suceed in entertaining
and thrilling at the same time
. this isnt a great accomplishment for a teen horror movei
, especially when compared to some of thge trash
, of the smae genre
, released in yhe last couple of years
( urban legend anbd i still know what you did last summer are classic examples from the bunch
)
. what helps final destination is its unique premise
. unlike your average horror flick in which some invincible psycho with a knife chases blonde cheerleaders
, the villain presented is unusual
, it
' s the grim reaper
. tihs bieng already has predestined when
and how yuo will die
. according to the brief history lesson given in htis film
, everyone was meant to die at a certain time
, some people at 100
, others at 17
, whatever death chooses
. what is unique about death is that it
' s alreay dead
, so you can
' t realyl kill it
. the only way to defeat death is to cheat it
; the question is how do you do that
? this dilemma is what faces alex
and a group of teenagers
. alex has been having some dreams that the airplane which will take his class on a trip to paris will crash
, leaving no survivors
. alex begins to relize that his dreasm are a little too real
and eventually gets himself
and six others kicked off thge plane right before it takes off
. shortly after
, the plane does indeed crash leaving some of the seven survivors confused
and others feeling immortal
.
however
, death isn
' t through with them
yet
. it gradually kills off the seven noe by one
, leaving those currenly still alive frantically trying to trick death again
. the plot allows for some of the most creative
, original death scenes i hvae seen in a while
. some scenes build up the perfect amount of tension until an elaborate climax
, others are so unexpected they will leave your jaw wide open in shock
. creativity
and originality are two adjectives lacking in most horror films nowadays
but final destination is nto like most horror films
. sure
, it has your traditional share of jerks
and outsiders
( ali larter
' s character is partcularly annoying
)
,
but the shocks
, from the beginning to the end
, are extremely entertaining
. also director wong has the sense not tothe take the movie too seriously
. he knows its just another entertaining guilty pleasure thta won
' t win any academy awards
( not even a golden globe
)
. the miriad ofthe inside jokes
and gags
( the characters are named after famous horror directors
, one character who plays a jerk is named carter
, like x
- files creator chris carter
,
and a song by john denver
, who died in a plane crash
, plays whenever death is near
) sohw this movie is a bunch ofthe guys having a good time making a movie
.
and from thsi
, i had a great time watching the movie
.