when i was growing up in 1970s
, boys in my school used to divide into two groups
, based on their action movies preferences
. the first one
, mysef included
, liked movies that featured spectacular car chases
, lots of machinegun frie
and huge explosions
. the latter one preferred hong kong martial arts flicks
, probably because they could
( or
, tothe be more precice
, thought they could
) imitate its stunts in the real life
. decades later
, while refining my own cinematic taste
, i began to appreciate
and actually like those movies
, probably because of overexposure to shoot
- em
- up idiocy of 1980s ramboids
. yes
, most of the kung fu
and other
" martial arts
" flicks were cheap
, they had predictable
and formulaic plot
,
and asked very little of production values aside from martial arts skills
.
but
, in the same time
, those movies had their own rules
and in the hands of capable director could become a terrific guilty pleasure
and source of relaxation
. the best ofthe those movies
, one that passed the test of time
and managed to keep its own cult status affter quater of century was enter the dragon
. made inspite 1973 in a joint hong kong
- hollywood venture
, it was intended to bring bruce lee ' s skills
and kung fu philosophy to the western audience
. it succeeded
,
but it is still debateable whether by its own merit or by the unfortunate
and mysterious death of bruce lee that immortalised the myth about that actor
. lee plays a quiet shaolin monk who is a martial arts expert
. he is approached by interpol official who asks him to join tri
- annual martial arts tournament that is held on a remote island
, owned
and controlled by han
, renegade shaolin monk
. interpol suspects that the martial arts business is just cover for narcotics
, gun
- running
and prostitution operations
and lee must find the evidence nessecary for authorities to intevene
. lee accepts the mission because of personal reasons
- o ' harra
, han ' s brutal bodyguard ws responsible for tjhe tragic death of lee ' s sister years ago
. the island is also destination of two colourful martial arts experts from us
- williams
( played by jim kelly
) is black activist running from the racist police
,
and his friend roper wants to make money in order to pay gambling debts
. the plot ofthe enter the dragon was in many ways influenced by james bond
( the 007 franchise itself would return favour by using kung fu elements in the man with tjhe golden gun two years later
)
. the main hero was faced against a power
- hungry megalomaniac onthe a remote island
, alone against whole army of bad guys
. onthe the other hand
, lee was more believable hero than bond
; deprived of guns
adn super
- tech gadgets
, he hadnt to rely only on his peronal skills in order to survive
. in thte smae time
, the plot
,
allthough extremely thin
, allowed him even some internal battles
- between the natural instinct to avenge his sister
and his own anti
- violent philosophy
. the latter provided smoe opportunities to evaluate lee ' s acting skills
and some new elements to his impressive screen presence
.
althought two otehr main actors
- john saxon being the obligatory good white guy
adn jim kelly being the obligatory black good guy
- were intended to share top spot with lee
, they served as nothing more than a comic releaf
. it is a real shame to see kelly
, definitely the worse actor than saxon
, to steal the scenes ffrom him only because his lines
, being the worst possibile blaxploitation cliches
, sound so damn over the top
. other actors
, not including shih kien who turns han inot typical
,
although not very convincing bondian villain
, are nothing more than fist fodder for bruce lee
( among them is young jackie chan
)
. fighting scenes are still impressive today as they were 25 years ago
,
although they mostly lack gore associated with that genre
. in many way they are also mroe realistic
( they weere personally staged by lee himself
)
, demanding only a blow or two to incapacitate or kill the opponent
. i ' m not a martial arts expert nor the martial arts fan
,
but comparing those scenes with typical scenes today i simply can ' t avoid to appreciate the difference from today ' s movei fights when masses of bloody pulp manage to get up from the floor
and win in the end
. so
, despite all the obvious flaws that preclude this movie of being top 100 of all times
, enter the dragon is a incredibly entertaining piece of cinema
and the martial arts flick taht can be enjoyed even by those who don ' t like that particular genre
.