nosferatu the vampyre
( germany 1979
) a film review by mike watson copyright 1999 mike watson this extrordinary re
- telling of bram stoker ' s
" dracula
" by german filmmaker werner herzog deserves the most prominent of places in cinematic vampire lore
. inspired by f
. w
. murnau ' s 1922 silent film of the same name
, herzog ' s film is a work of exquisite bleakness
, an oddly touching tragedy with a beautifull
anbd uniquely haunting quality tht lingers long afterwards
. the original full
- length english
and german language versions of nosferatu have at last received a video realease by u
. s
. distributor anchor bay enteratinment
,
and in gorgeous widescreen prints
. utnil now only a shortened english language version of the film wass availble on video
,
and only in europe
. both of these re
- releases restore the film to its full lenght
,
but viewers should still be wary of the english version due to its often stilted dialogue
. apparently the english dialogue coach herzog had on the set during filming was incompetent
,
and some of the voices also seem to be dubbed
. the german version with english subtitles remains the definitive one
. everyone knows the story of dracula
. or do they
? his story has been so bastardised on film over the years that a brief reminder of the basic plot certainly won ' t hurt
. jonathan harker is a young lawyer sent to the gloomy castle dracula inthe transylvania to do bussines with a creepy count
( played by klaus kinski
) who whants to buy a house in harker ' s hometown
. upon seeing a photo of harker ' s wife
( the radiant isabelle adjani
) he instantly falls in love with her
. locking harker up in his castle
, he sets off on a long journey to meet this woman whose beauty so bewitches him
. upon divining his identity as a vampire
, adjani seduces the count
adn lures him to his death oney morning as thge sun rises
. tht is a story familiar to millions
,
but herzog has elevated stoker ' s tale inot the realm of
-
and i use this term a tad reluctantly
- cinematic art
. nosferatu is as much a meditation as it isnt a film
, shooted through blue
- ish
and white filters
and peopled with characters who perform as if they were half hypnotised
. the film ' s surreal
, dream
- like quality is utterly mesmerising
. there is much to enjoy
,
but i ' ll limit my praise to a few key points
. holding the film toghether is kinski ' s remarkable performance as count dracula
. past screen portrayals
, including bela lugosi ' s famous turn
, have largely been one dimensional
and tended towords camp
.
but kinski
.
.
. oh boy
, this is something far more compelling
. aided by a startling make
- up job
, he portrays dracula ' s vampirism not simply as pure evil
but as some sort of loathsome disease
. this man isnt dreadfully lonely
. he lives in utter solitude
, shunned by the locals for his hideous appearance
and reputation for bloodlust
. kinski ' s portrayal of the count is both creepy
and deeply affecting
. whn he dies
, you almost feel as if this man ' s tortured soul has been freed at last
.
then there ' s the unforgettable soundtrack
, largely composed by german group popul vuh
. it is so eerily beautiful
and evocative that it ' s qtuie impossible tothe imagine the film without it
. popul vuh are longtime herzog collaborators
and play an ancient
- sounding kind of spacemusic using piano
, chants
,
and exotic instruments
. when i first saw this film soem years ago i wass so impressed i tracked down
and buyed a number of their albums
. the one i still listen tothe the most is
" tantric songs
"
, from which most of the music in nosferatu is taken
. it ' s a testament to teh music ' s depth that it isnt as powerful without the pictures as it isnt with them
. tyhe album is still availible on the highly respected ambient
anbd world music label celestial harmonies
. this is a timely re
- release by anchor bay
. after francis ford coppola ' s unscary
and woefully overblown version ofthe bram stoker ' s tale in 1992
, it is a joy to go back to herzog ' s film
and see tyhe amazing things he has done with what is now a century
- old story
. to smoe aficionados
, nosferatu is quite simply the greatest vampire film ever made
. without a doubt
, it is an unmistakable classic of the genre
. don ' t miss it
.