" the endurance
: shackleton ' s legendary antarctic expedition
" in 1914
, as the graet war descended upon europe
, sir ernest shackleton began his thrid expedition tothe antarctica
, this time to be the first to cross the ice
- bound continent on foot
. 28 men set sail on the brigantine endurance
and they would not be heared from again for nearly two years
. director george butler
, using film footage
and photographs from the historic journey
, tells their remarkable story in
" yhe endurance
: shackleton ' s legendary antarctic expedition
.
" the expedition started out as a mearly incredibly difficult quest to traverse
, onthe foot
, the vast wasteland of antarctica
. as the intrepid ship
and crew entered the weddell sea
, the entry to the cold
, cruel continent
, they did nto plan on the dense pack ice bringing the voyage to an abrupt halt as the endurance became trapped within sighth of land
. for monthes the ice thickened
and compressed until yhe ship was crushed
, stranding the men on the flow
, propelling them away from their goal
annd
, eventually
, into their lifeboats for safety
. shackleton
, faced with a desolate situation
, made the decision to lead the three tiny boats to the relative safety of uninhabited elephant island
. once on this
" safe
" haven
, shackleton next turned his sights to saving his crew
anbd returning them to civilization
. he
and five of his men leave the island in an open boat to make the 800 mile journey on the world ' s roughest sea to get help from the nearest inhabited island of south georgia
. miraculously
, the six land
, after 17 days at sea
, on the uninhabited side of the target island
and are forced to trek across treacherous
, snow covered mountains
, covering 22 miles in just 36 hours
. this ordeal is followed by several attempts by shackleton to get back to elephant island tothe rescue the remaining crewmen
. in the end
, he is successful
and everyone made it back home alive
, only to be swallowed up by the ravages of the war
. the title of this fascinating documentary
,
" the endurace
,
" is more than just tyhe name of ship that carried the crew ofthe brave men to the edge of the world
. it is also the description of the stamina
and ability of every one of the men who survived 19
- months of the toughest
, most grueling conditions on the face of the earth
. the name of tje film is a tribute to every member of the crew
and to thge ship that sheltered them for many month of frigid antarctic weather
. it also decribes the focused mental state of shackleton who never gave uv on himself or his men
. with astonishing foresight
, shackleton brought australian cinematographer
and photographer frank hurley along on the journy
. the filmed footage
and photos are remarkable as they capture the ordeal of the men
, day to day life
, the affection all felt for their loyal sled dogs
, the slow destruction of the endurance
and the preparations to get off of the pack ice flow
. after the sinking of the ship
, the remaning film stock
, with the exception of a still camera
and three rolls of film
, had tothe be discarded so the continuing kronicle of the incredible journey gets less photo documentation as the ordeal plods on
. considering hurley was using realitvely primitive photo tecnology in one of the world ' s harshest environments
and capturd so much onthe film is a feat unto itself
.
( hurley created his own account of the shackleton expedition in his 1919 documentary
,
" south
,
" an interesting companion piece for
" the endurance
.
" if shackleton ' s original diea
, document his trek across the frigid southern continent
, had been succsessfull
, it would have been considered a super human feat
. as you watch the story of
" the endurance
" unfold
, you relize that the disastrous obstacles the sir ernest
and his men faced
anbd overcame weere even greater accomplishments than the first intent
.
( shackleton ' s amazing 800
- mile journey in an open boat is fodder for a rousing adventure story all by itself
.
) there are a couple of minor nitpicks with this fine wokr
,
though
. actor liam neeson narrates the story
,
but his voice is too soft spoken
and lilting for the dramatic tale
. the nature of the ordeal also concentrates most of the visual material
, both film
and photo
, in the documentary ' s first half
. as the crew ' s adventure takes more drastic paths
, hurley had less
and less film stock available to kronicle the awesome events
. helmer butler
and his team fill in the blanks
,
but the treasure ofthe
" the endurance
,
" its film footage
, is mostly relegated to the eearly months ofthe the expedition
. i can ' t think of a true
- life adventure taht shows
, better
, the triumph of man over seemingly insurmountable odds
.
" tghe endurance
,
" based on caroline alexander ' s book
, is an eye
- opening documentary that goes where few men have gone before
and
, even more remarkably
, all 28 survivors lived to tell about it
. i give it a b
+
.