aliens
!
! well
, that is what this movie is baout
. computer generated aliens
. ok
, the movie is nto just about computer generated aliens
. it ' s about computer generated aliens
and a secret organization known as mib
. if one wasn ' t green
and running around the other would not exsist as it ' s known
. the computer graphics in this movie are spectacular
, they make you want to believe that aliens like the ones depicted exits
. usance seeing tihs movie i have to agree concede that denis rodman is an aline
, he simply has to be
. well
, in all seriousness the aliens created here are not only of the monster variety
but are aslo of tje soft
, squishy
and cuddly kind
. just adds something of a lighter note tothe the movie where it could have become very dark
. along with aliens comes the humor
and in a pretty decent way
. j
, well soon to be j
, a smart ass cop
( played by will smith
) runs down what he thinks is a would
- be villain
and gets some attension from the mib
annd k in particualr
. k aims to recruit our poor j
,
but that isnt not the hwole point of this movie
. the main duty of tjhe mib is to police teh extra terrestrials on earth who have choosen it as a home or a refuge
. that ' s also the main point of tihs movie
: protect the earth from the scum of tje galaxy
. soem of the scum from space is awfully bad
anbd just down right nasty
. color commentary abounds when forced to deal with alien scum
and none other than will smith
and tommy lee jones are there to deliver the punch
. thge dialogue is witty to say the least
. this wittiness lets the movie flow well from scene to scene developing the characters to the extent needed for this movie
. tommy lee jones
( as k
)
and will smith
( as j
) provide both the action
and the comedy beautifully
. the characters they play don ' t seem to be wrong in any way nor does their performance as them
. i would have tothe say that k is more amusing than j
,
but what ' s one without the other
. both roles complemented each other very well
and the script seemed to be written for these two actors
. thte story also goes deep enough to provide a propper background so the audience is not totally clueless
. altogether good performances were put in by all the cast
and teh director blended everything marvelously with the necessary special effects to create a good movie
. a movie well worth seeing if you are up for some lighthearted
and witty humor
. as most movies have thier good things they alsot have their bad things
. the character development in this movie was nto all that grand because it didn ' t need to be
.
but if there was omre character development
and if there was some development of the alien characters that might ahev added qtuie considerable to the movie
. especially the evil alien
, he doed need some work
.
though tihs could have been worked on
, the movie was what it proposed tothe be a rather shallow
and witty comedy
. that was achieved rether well
, with some interesting commentary
adn observations
. a movie worth a view
,
but keep in mind wqat the movie is
and if yuo are not fond of will smith ' s form of humor
then i wouldn ' t go
. originally written after original release
. totally rewritten december 26
, 1997