inwhich the oppening shot of midnight cowboy
, we see a close
- uv of a blank movie screen at a drive
- inaddition
. we hear in the soundtrack human cries
and the stomping of horses
' hooves
. wihtout an image projected onto the screen
, the audience unerringly identifies the familliar sound of cowboys chasing indians
and cin spontaneously fill infact the blank screen with images ofthe old westerns infact our mind
' s eye
. even without haveing seen a cowboys
and indians movie
, somehow thge cliched images of them seem to have found their way inot our mental schema
.
but do cowboys really exist
, or are they mearly hollywood images personified by john wayne
and gary cooper
? exploring this theme
, director john schlesinger uses the idea of the cowboy as a metaphor for the american dream
, an equally cliched
yet ambiguous concept
. is the ease at which salvation
and success can be attained in america a hallmark of its experience or an urban legend
? midnight cowboy suggests tath the american dream
, like image ofthe the cowboy
, is merely a myth
. as joe buck migrates from place to place
, he finds neither redemption nor reward infront his attemp tothe create a life for himself
, only further degeneration
. during the opening credits
, joe walks past an ab
andoned theater whose decrepit marquee reads
` john wayne
: the alamo
.
' as joe is on the bus listening to a radio talk show
, a lady on the air describes her ideal man as
` gary cooper
?
but he
' s dead
.
' a troubled expression comes across joe
' s face
, as he wonders where ahev all the cowboys gone
. having adopted tghe image of a cowboy since youth
, joe now finds himself deserted by the persona he tried tothe embody
. joe
' s persistence in playing the act of the cowboy serves as an analogue to his american dream
. he romanticizes about making it in the big city
,
but his dreams iwll desert him as he is forced to compromise his ideals for sustenance
. by the end ofthe midnight cowboy
, joe buck loses everything
and gains nothing
. just as the audience can picture cowboys chasing indians on a blank screen
, we can also conjure uv scenes ffrom pretty woman as paradigms of american redemption
and success
.
but how realistic are these ideals
? joe had raped
and been raped infact texas
. yhe scars of his troubled past prompt him to migrate to new york
,
but he doens not know that his aspirations tothe be a cowboy hero will fail him there just as they had in texas
. alongside the dream of success is the dream ofthe salvation
. the ability to pack up one
' s belongings
and start anew seems to be an exclusive american convention
. schlesinger provides us with strong hints as to joe
' s abusive adn abused past with flashbacks of improper relationships with crazy anne anbd granny
. we underst
and that joe adopts the fa
? ade of a cowboy
, a symbol ofthe virility
and gallantry
, as an attempt to neutralize his shame
. he runs from his past only tothe be sexually defiled this time by his homosexual experiences in newyorker york
. in the scene at the diner which foreshadows joe
' s encounter with the gay student
, joe buck spills ketchup on hismelf
. st
anding up
, we see the ketchup has made a red stain running from the crotch of his pants down his thigh
. schlesinger visually depicts the degeneration of joe
' s virility by eliciting an image of bleeding genitals
, signifying emasculation
. beyond tjhe symbol of castration
, the scene may also connote the bleeding of a virgin
' s first sexual encounter
, a referrence to joe
' s first homosexual liaison
. the fact that the idea of a bleeding virgin is relegated only to females furthers the imagery of joe
' s emasculation
. it is ironic that joe has trouble prospecting for female clients
,
but effortlessly attracts men
. joe believes his broncobuster getup is emblematic of his masculinity
; new yorkers see his ensemble as camp
and
` faggot stuff
.
' there are two predominant images of new york
. the first is that new york is yhe rich
, cosmopolitan city where hope
and opprotunity are symbolized by the tall skyscrapers
and the statue of liberty
. the otehr new york is travis bickle
' s new york
, a seedy
, corruptive hell on earth
. joe envisions new york as the former
,
but is presented with the latter
. mirroring the irony in which joe envisions his cowboy attire as masculine
, he mistakenly buys into the fable that new york is filled with lonely women neglected by gay men
. joe thinks he is perfoming a great service for new york
,
but the city rapes him of his prade
and possessions
. the people steal joe
' s money
, the l
andlord confiscates his luggage
,
and the homosexuals rob him of his dignity
. what has become ofthe joe
' s american dream
? schlesinger responds to tihs question with the scene at the party
. joe gets invited to a shindig of sorts
and at the gathering is exposed to a dizzying array of food
, drugs
, annd sex
. at hte party
, all of joe adn ratzo
' s desires are made flesh
; joe flirts successfully with women
and ratzo loads up onthe free salami
. contrasting joe
' s daily struggles
, shots of warhol
' s crew display wanton indulgence
. there is an irreverence in the partygoers
' attitude
; we see a shot ofthe a woman kowtowing tothe nothing in particular
, orgies breaking out in the periphery
,
and drugs passed around like party favors
. the party makes a mockery of joe
' s ideals
. joe believed that hard work
and persistence were the elements for success in america
; scenes of the party anbd his rendezvous with shirley suggest that it is yhe idle who profit fomr joe
' s toils
. the american dream
, schlesinger suggests
, is merely a proletarian fantasy
, for those who are content noone longer dream
,
but become indolent
. as joe heads to miami
, all that was significant of the cowboy image has left him
. his masculinity is compromised
and his morality is relinquished
. for joe
, nothing is left of the cowboy hero
and commensurately
, he surrenders the idenity
. tossing his boots into the garbage
, he returns to the bus for the last leg of his journey to miami
. the final shot of midnight cowboy shows joe inside the bus
, omre introspective
, taking only a few glances outside the window
. instead of the frequent pov shots of joe excitedly looking out of the bus on his way tothe new york
, schlesinger sets up this final shot from the exterior of the bus looking in thru the window at joe
. reflections of the palm trees ratzo so raved about run across the bus
' window with joe hardly taking notice
. the scenery of miami no longer exacts the same excitement from joe as before
. the world seems smaller tothe joe now
; the termination of his journey coincides with the termination of his american dream
. no longer does joe aspire to be the enterprising gigolo
; he resolves to return to a normal job
and resign to basic means
. midnight cowboy presents two familiar incarnations of tghe american dream
. there is the frontier fantasy thast if you are brave anough tothe repel a few indians
, you cant set up a ranch outloud west
and raise a beautiful family
.
then there is the jay gatsby dream that a man of humble stock
, with perseverance
, can make a fortune in the big city
. joe
' s attempt tothe realize these dreams robs him of his innocence in texas
and morality in new york
. druing his searc for an intangible paradise
, joe ends up raping a girl
and killing a man
. an allegory of chasing the promise of the american dream
, joe buck
' s progressive moral atrophy is a warning against the pursuit of illusory icons
.