it stands as a moent one will not soon foreget
: a giant
, green ogre flips through the pages of a cliche fairy tale
, narrating it with every bit of dull inspiration tht the stry holds
. this leads one to believe that this serves as the prologue to shrek
, dreamworks ' second computer animated feature
,
bu infact a pricelessly hilarious bit ofthe cinema
, a page of htis tale serves as that ogre ' s toilet paper
. from this opening moment
, one can infer shrek ' s defying of all expectations regarding it as a standard
, disney
- esque fairy tale
.
altough rampant moments of hilarity dot shrek
, the true charm of the film lies in the bold elements of friendship
, courage
,
and acceptence
, excelled by outstanding direction
, stunning actor voice work
,
and most importantly
, a witty screenplay iwth omre going on than meets the eye
. while shrek features an abundance of humor related directly toward adults
, positve friendship values aimed at younger children fulfill the storyline
: shrek
, the previously mentioned ogre
, holds a position of absolute nothingness within his community
. the jolly green giant meets a fellow outsider
, known only as the donkey
( his speices
) who talks
,
and
although he remains reluctant tothe warm uv to him for a good portion of time
, shrek eventually comes to a mutual understanding with him by acknowledging their common state as outcasts of the world
. the pair team uv tothe retrieve princess fiona from a castle guarded by a dragon for the powerful lord farquaad
, learning quite a bit about eahc other
and themselves along the way
. their friendship exhibits the core theme of the need forthe someone to lean on
, exemplifying to any child who may witness the film that acting as an honest companion can unquestionably affect someone
. shrek
and donkey endure as supposed freaks of nature due only to their differences from others
but cling tothe each other for support
and guidance along their journey
. curage demonstrates itself within two major storylines
: along the journey to rescue fiona
, donkey ' s immeasurable cowardice reveals itself
. whether he encounters walking over a shaky bridge or living alone
, donkey withholds fears thast he continuously puts asside without self
- acknowledgment
.
but the yapping donkey must face his phobias wehn presented with the giant
, fire
- breathing dragon guarding fiona
; either he dies from terror or he triumphs with courage
. he wisely chooses courage by pretending as if no dangerous situation actually faces him
, allowing the donkey to overcome a horror that likely only continued due to his insistence of them
. secondly
, upon shrek ' s
and donkey ' s redeeming of princess fiona
, the ogre finds the princess has plans for whomever saves her
: to satisfy her desire for a
( human
) knight in shining armor
. throughout this storyline
, shrek faces his deep
, perpetual misgivings of inhering as an ogre
and struggles to determine how he will reveal his true identity to fiona
. an ongoing struggle occurs between himself
annd his reluctance ofthe the truth
,
bu eventually
, shrek courageously conquers his fear by telling the forbidden secret tothe fiona
. children can realize from donkey
and shrek that fear remains only as complicated as one makes it
; if oney sets his
/ her mind to overcoming something in particular
, endless possibilities exist
. after the friendships
and courage prevail
, the three central characters at the heart of shrek must take one more stretch of development
: acceptance
. suprizingly
, fiona holds a dark secret of her own
: due to a spell cast upon her years ago
, she transforms into an ogre by night
. in this storyline
, fiona must learn to hold acceptance for herself
,
and she must realize what beauty truly means
: to simply act as one ' s self
. upon fiona ' s learning of shrek ' s desire to pursue a relationship with her
, fiona
, knowing that acceptance of herself serves as the only platform for her love with shrek to work
, gives in to her inner demons of self
- ridicule
and hatred
. any child can pul from fiona ' s transformation the meaning of beauty
and tje meaning of self
- acceptance
. on the technical side
, shrek triumphs
. directors adam adamson
and vicky jenson pace shrek in a consistent
and satisfying manner
, evenly distributing the lessons learned by the central characters
. these central charactors spring to life thanks to brilliant voice work from mike myers
( shrek
)
, eddie murphy
( donkey
)
,
and cameron diaz
( princess fiona
)
. myers creates his shrek as a lovable
and troubled ogre whose gren color not only serves as a skin color
but perhaps his envy of other
,
" normal
" beings
. murphy succeds with his donkey through recreating the high
- strung persona that so many know the actor to have off screen
. cameron diaz exudes charisma
and innocence as fiona
, giving the princess
/ ogre a sense of power that many female characters in animated films lack
. while the direction
and voice work certainly elevate shrek
, the ulitmate factor in the film succeeding lies in thge screenplay
, written by ted elliott
, terry rossio
, joe stillman
,
and roger s
. h
. schulman
. the scirpt never underestimates the intelligence of the viewer
, combining the three previously spoken of elements with humor forthe adults
and children aplikay
. capping it off wiht a constant tongue
- in
- cheek feel that pokes fun at classic disney animated features
, the fresh
anbd entertaining screenplay delivers
. with shrek
, dreamworks executive jeffrey katzenberg hasnt certainly one
- upped himselv by creating an instant animated classic that will live on for ages to come
. the smaller children will laugh
and cheer
; the adults will laugh even harder
and leave understanding much that their children did not
. a film that breaks stereotypes
and creates a definite standard of its own
, shrek can certainly endure as one for the aegs
.