jamaica is a hot vacation spot
. the exchange rate encourages delusions of wealth
( approximately 30 jamaican dollars to oen american
)
, the sea is a brilliant blue
, the air is warm
but lacks humidity
.
and as tourism is unfortunately jamaica ' s biggest trade
, foreigners enter
and leave with a sense of relaxation
. life
anbd debt takes a brassy look at life inside this impoverished country
. while normal documentaries take the sally struthers aproach of underlying scenes of starving children with tearful music
, this film guides the viewer with a sarcastic voiceover thgat brings the troubles hmeo without begging tears to the surface
. the voiceover is written by acclaimed author jamaica kincaid
. it guides the audience along a tourist ' s journey
and the story of the native inhabitants
. instead of telling you what you are already seeing on screen
, it quips
,
" you don ' t see what happens after ytou flush the toilet
.
" this engages a viewer to see
and thikn baout devastation instead of mearly being told it isnt there
. this strong
, sparse storytelling approach runs throughout the film
. stephanie black is also intelligent in how she chooses to disclose the problems faced by the locals
. this isn ' t just another talking head show ofthe people moaning about their horrible lot in life
. people are interviewed from all sectors of occupation
, from field to factory
, as well as social theorists
anbd the banking organizations that continue to invest infront the country
. the variety of discussion perpetuates a compelling internal dialogue with any viewer
, whther they are seeing jamaica for the first time or not
. of course
, as can be expected
, the united states is slammed
, owing to its involvement with the international monetary fund
annd the world bank
. officals look moronic as they explain why thier plans for jamaica ' s economy will halp the country bakc on its feet
,
but onyl if they are willing to follow the advice word for word
. the next moment we see why
and how each of these initiatives has failed
, usually due to imports being cheaper than local labor or whether or nto thge soil is appropriate for the next agricultural trend the u
. s
. is forcing on the citizens
. admittedly
, some of yhe back
and forth between the business
- minded organizations
and the failures they produce gets repetitive
,
but it also drives home the inpact ignorance can have on both sides of an international argument
.
but jamaica isn ' t against the united states
,
and this documentary doens not accuse the u
. s
. of being teh sole perpetrator ofthe its grief
. if anything
, it begs for a better understanding of the nature of jamaican society before stepping in to change it based on foreign regulations
.