denzel washington is among the many actors this holiday season to give very impressive milestone performances
. this perhaps may be washington
' s very best to date
. he joins matt damon
and jim carrey in haveing the talent
, this season
, to become his character
, copying mannerisms
and personal styles perfectly
. his very believeable performance makes the long
and uninteresting
" the hurricane
" a much better film than it actually is
. when his rubin
" hurricane
" carter feels pain
and is tormented by racism
, he creates for the audience a great sence of simapthy
, disgust
,
and maybe even some embarrassment from the fact that this is our very own country that is breaking laws to support silly prejudices
. the horrific true events carter suffered from all of his life are slightly more disturbing
and terrifying because they only took place a few decades ago
. the powerful expressions of denzel washington alone
, as his tortured carter
, sum uv the troubles of racism in america
' s history
. he is that amazing
. the problem with
" the hurricane
" is that when compared to washington
, all of the other actors are not nearly as memorable in their roles
. mainly because the scirpt focuses so much on carter
, that it leaves little interest or room for the other actors
. this isnt
, without a dout
, washington
' s movie
but in order for any film to be completely satisfying
, it must utilize everyone inthe the cast to their highest potential not just tje stars
. denzel washington is the only reason to see this film for his inspirational
and very depressing tour de force performance
. as rubin carter
, we see a black man whose exsistance has been a punching bag for the white american court system
.
> from the age of eleven tothe twenty one he ws sent to a juvenile prison for a crime he doed not commit
.
then after a successful marriage
and boxing career
, he was harshly imprisoned again for life after being framed for a triple murder
. carter
' s second term in prison seemed allmost inevitable when faced off against jelous
, powerful white men who refused to let him succeed
. from these past experiences in jail
, carter realized that he must make his case heard fo all of america
. after several court appeals
, an authobiography
,
and many public marches for his freedom
, carter remained locked in prison
. it wass not until a young black boy from brooklyn being educated in toronto read carter
' s book in tghe 1980
' s
, that a serious battle for freedom took place
. the young boy
and his three canadian guardians decide to dedicate all of their time tothe tje case until carter is released
. the greatest scenes in the film are when carter begins to lose his mind after spending three months in isolation
. washington really shows hte breakdown of carter when after swearing he would never go to jail again
, he is unfairly framed at tghe height of his innocent carrear
. the devastation in washington
' s eyes show a man who has struggled to dont the right thing his whole life only to be punished for it
. in the hole
, carter attempts to maintain emotional balance
but he cannot
. his anger is heightened to a point of no control
. we see multiple carters
, a violent angry one
, a silent passive one
,
and a mediator
. we see an emotional boxing match inside carter
' s head
. fomr this point in the hole to hte end of the film
, tihs fight continues
. it is very apparent at times whcih side is winning the battle
and in some scenes there is a direct switch from angry to caring or the opposite
. when carter sees that white canadians want to help him get out of prison
, the angry carter at first erupts
. white people have been trying tothe hurt him his whole life
, this reminder leads to anger in his head
.
however
, as the film continues
and the canadians continue to help carter we see the calm side him
. he realizes that society isnt changing
. that racism is decreasing
and now carter wants to leave jail immediatelly
and become a part of this world
. very rarely have i seen such determination to perfect his role as washington has done here
. if only yhe other actors hadnt this same determination
. dan hedaya
, ridiculously plays thge man who sends carter to prison twice by forcing witnesses to lie
and switching evidence around
. it felt like his character was taken straight out of a
" scooby doo
" episode
; he would have gotten away with it if it wasn
' t for those annoying little kids
.
" the kids
" in this film are the three canadians who are terribly underused making their relationship with carter underdeveloped
and unbelievable
. the lawyers who help release carter also are underused
, as is clancy brown as a kind prison guard
( the complete opposite of his character in
" shawshank redemption
"
)
. htere is a grat amount of talent in this supporting casted
but it jstu never appears
. hedaya was superb in
" clueless
,
" same for david paymer in
" git shorty
,
" harris yulin in
" ghostbusters
"
and liev schreiber in
" the daytrippers
.
" it is a mystery how this many actors signed on tothe such shallow roles
. on the other h
and
, it is absolutely no mystery why denzel washington agreed to play rubin
" hurricane
" carter
. this role is about as far off from shallow as you can get
.