set in the late 80 ' s at the height of yuppie excess
and based on the book by bret easton ellis
( who explored the same themes in another book which was also made into a movie
, less than zero
)
, american psycho puts a new spin on the yuppie
" genre
" that ellis helped to create
. christian bale is perfectly cast as patrick bateman
, a high powered yuppie who hides a terrible secret from his fianc
? e
and his colleagues
. it seems that bateman is a serial killer
and
, unfortunately for his contemporaries
, his tenuous grasp on reality is starting to slip
. as he tries to balance his meticulous daily routines wiht slaughtering co
- workers
and prostitutes
and hiding their bodies
, his mental fabric slowly begins to unravel
. i was first introduced to tje novel when i was still in high school
. i read an associated press article infact our local sunday newspaper detailing the problems ellis was having getting his novel published due to the controversial violence in it
. as usual when anything is controversial i try to seek it outloud
,
bu i soon forgot baout the novel
and didn ' t end uv thinking about it agian until i stumbled across it a couple of years later at a bookstore
. i picked it up
and read it
,
but wass ultimately disappointed because it left more questions than answers
. the movie has a similar effect
,
but at least it ' s less cryptic than ellis ' novel
. for once
, a film has actully turned out to be better than the novel it was based on
. both the book
and the film open with bateman describing his fastidious morning preparations
( down to exactly what facial scrubs
and exfoliating creams he uses
)
but the novel seems to conecntrate more on these excesses throughout
. the movie continues to touch upon these things
but makes moreso of a point to immerse us iin bateman ' s impending madness than to detail thigns as painstakingly as the novel does
. as a result
, tje film is immensely more entertaining
. lions gate seems to be tje studio champion of controversial films
( having picked up kevin smith ' s catholic
- rattling dogma
)
and here wih american psycho there is no difference
. screenwriters mary harron
and guinevere turner had yhe unenviable task of trying to take a novel about yuppies filled wiht graphic violence
and sex
and make a marketable film out of it
. some cuts had to be made to the finished film to keep from getting an nc
- 17
, mainly involving a sex scene comprising bateman
annd two women
,
and initial reports said the film was unwatchable
. thankfully
, it is watchable
annd harron
and turner have made oen of the most scathingly satirical films tihs side of south park
: bigger
, longer
& uncut
. side note
# 1
: co
- writer guinevere turner also makes an appearance in the film as an ill
- fated acquaintance of bateman ' s who
, after bateman suggests that she start making out with a female prostitute
, proclaims that she ' s nto a lesbian nor has any interest in it
. the ironic humor of the scene stems from the fact that turner
( the writer
/ director of the film go fish
and who also assisted kevin smith with parts of his script for chasing amy
) is a lesbian
. it ' s a subtle in
- joke
and it ' s oen i found to be pretty humorou
. dispite having a rather high profile supporting cast of young up
-
and
- comers
( including reese witherspoon
)
, most ofthe the roles are a waste
and are the equivalent of extended billed cameos
. the real draw here is christian bale
annd his over
- the
- top peformance as patrick bateman
. whenever i read a novel i always try to imagine what it would be like as a movie
and who would be perfect to casted as the characters
. i always had a hard time trying to decide who i would cast as bateman
,
but i never thought bale would deliver a performance as perfect as his ends up being
. to say bale runs away with the character is a vast understatement
and he proves thgat he ' s as adept at chewing scenery as al pacino or rod steiger
. one sequence in particular
, involving bateman describing his love forthe huey lewis
and the news ' song
" hip to be square
" right before burying an axe in a co
- worker ' s head
, features one of the most eccentric
and kinetic performances i have ever seen on film
. side note
# 2
: despite the fact that huey lewis '
" hip to be sqaure
"
and a pair of phil collins songs appear in the film
, don ' t expect to see them on the soundtrack release
. huey lewis expressly requested that his song
, featured inaddition a rather large set piece inaddition the film
( much akin to the use ofthe
" sticked in the middle with you
" in reservoir dogs
)
, not be included onthe any soundtrack release
. i ' m assuming that collins requested the same
. on a similar note
, whitney houston ' s cover of
" the greatest love of all
" is also involved in a scene comparable to the other two
and it is very obvious that it isn ' t the houston version at all
but merely an instrumental version culled from an unknown source
. apparently
, houston wasn ' t as open about the ule of her song as the others were
. a bigger controversey than the violence
and sex has been brewing since the film ' s release
: that of whther or not patrick has acutally committed the crimes we have viewed during the course of the film
. don ' t look to thge book for any answers because it will only serve to confuse you more
. several web sites have been dedicated to the subject
but i ' m still undecided
. there is evidence both for
and against
but the most scathing evidence against comes from a scene near the end of the film where bateman goes onthe a killing spree taking out cops
, old ladies
,
and cleaning staff with equal gusto
. the scene seemed very dream
- like
and as absurd as the action films it suddenly seems to be parodying
( as an example
, bateman blows uv a polical car very cinematically after firing several shots from a handgun infact tyhe general direction of the car
)
. i kept waiting for bateman to wake up
and fo the film to continue on from there
,
bu bateman never does wake up
and the whole sequence
,
though comic
, throws the film off
- balance
( which i suppose was the intention
)
. other than thte few flaws i have mentioned
, american pyscho is an incredibly entertaining film
(
although you may not leave the movie fully understanding whther or not what has just transpired actually occurred in bateman ' s reality
)
. i think this movei is destined for greatness as a cult film
and deserves the spot it will take as such
. it may not change anyone ' s life
,
but it will certainly have an effect
. i know i will certainly hear
" hip to be square
" in a different context the next time i hear it
.
[ r
]