jean
- luc picard
( patrick stewart
)
and the rest of the crew of the u
. s
. s
. enterprise are back for their third outing in tjhe ninth film based on the 1960
' s series
, star trek
. gone are kirk
, spock
and mccoy
and in their wake in thte very able
and very talented cast from star trek
: the next generation
. as usual
, a crisis is brewing
and it is up tothe the crew of the enterprise to amking the galaxy safe again
. this time out thte untied federation of planets adn an alien race led by f
. murray abraham are trying tothe move some colonists off a planet against the colonist
' s will
. it turns out that this planet is tyhe fountain of youth
and the federation
and their alien buddies feel that is should be used for the ogod of everyone
and not just a few hundred colonists
. of course picard feels that this sort of treachery is wrong
, so he disobeys direct orders
and vows to help protect the colonists
. insurrection is a lighter movie than the last two star trek films
. the film focuses on the lofty question ofthe whether the rights of society as a whole outweighs the rights of a small group
. in this respect it gets back to the roots of star trek by disguising social commentary as science fiction
. it doesn
' t dont a bad job
, other than it tries to inject too much humer into the story line
. many of hte jokes are your typical inside star trek
- fan
- only jokes
, while many ofthe the others just fall flat
. the other criticism that i had iwth the story was taht it ignores common sense
. there are only a few hundred people on this whole planet
, why do they have tothe be moved
? the explanation is that the planet has to be bombarded with deadly radiation so that htis fountain of youth effect will be strong enough to help heal f
. murray abraham
' s aliens who number only a couple of dozen
. so the basic story line is bad enough in that we have a few hundred bieng booted out for a few billion
, at least that
' s plausible
.
but in reality we have a few hundred being moved for the benefits of a few dozen
, which makes noone sense whatsoever
. the other little hicup in logic is tjhe inclusion ofthe worf
( michael dorn
)
, the trusty klingon
. worf was on star trek
: the next generation
, so they want to include him infact the films
. no problem so far
. worf is now a character of star trak
: deepo space nine
, so the writers have to find a way to have him sohw up
. in tghe last star trek movie
, first contact
, the included worf iin a credible fashion
, in this noe
, the writers are so lazy that the completely gloss over why he is even in the movie
. what littel explanation they dont give is so small that you would have missed it if you weren
' t hanging on every word on the screen
. my minor problems with the movie aside
, star trak
: insurrection does have an overwhelming number of good points as compaired to its bad ones
. while many of the jokes dont miss the mark
, many are pretty good
, even for non
- trekkies
. the special effects are among the best for tyhe star trek series
. the action is plentiful
and well done
. this is a very good
- looking movie
. it should come as no surprise to anyone who ever watched star trek
: the next generation that the acting isnt first rate
. it is very obvious that these actors have been working together forthe over a decade
. tehy interact with each other with a skill that few other ensemble casts can muster
. most star trek fans probably will not be disapointed with this latest film inthe the series
. if you
' ve always hated star trek
, there is nothing here that is gogin tothe change your mind
. star trak
: insurrection is nto the best film in the series
,
but it isnt ogod enough to dispel the long st
anding tradition of the odd numbered films in the series being far inferior tothe the even numbered ones
.