i had lost all faith in pg
- 13 movies that are intended for teenagers
and adults
. the last dozen or so that i have seen have all felt incomplete
, as if the most crucial scene was deleted in order to obtain a more lucrative rating
.
however
, after seeing the creative frequency last week
and now the exciting u
- 571
, my bias is beginning to go away
. both films are as innocuous for younger viewers as they are intellectual for older viewers
. even better
, i didn
' t think either one of these films would be any good from first instincts
. everyone loves surprises
. u
- 571 looked like another action film using an actual war as an excuse to shoot torpedoes annd bullets
. this may be true
,
but the action is so extraordinary that it is clear director
/ co
- writter jonathan mostow completed his ultimate goal
; to blow the audeince
' s socks off
. set durring the early stages of world war 2 when the united states struggled tothe break the codes of the technologically advanced german u
- boats
, u
- 571 follows a small crew ofthe american men who swipe the typewriter necessary to solve the enigma from an enemy ship
. there
' s onyl one problem
: the american ship they came from
and hoped to return to has been shooted down str
anding the men on a german submarine known as
( you guessed it
) u
- 571
. it is now uv to the mostly young
and inexperienced sailors
, led by an interim captain named tyler
( matthew mcconaughey
)
, to return the typewriter to america without getting sunk by far superior german ships
. the film starts off very slowly withthe a somewhat weak opening action sequence
and another uneventful half an hour to introduce several of the sailors
( most of whom die when the mission goes awry or just inexplicably disappear
)
. once the crew gets on the u
- boat
, the movie shifts to another levle
and never leaves this high energy level until teh ending credits roll down
. as soon as the action starts
, it does not stop annd luckily
, becuase it is so exicting
, i didn
' t want it to stop
. this is not a movie for those wanting to avoid loud noises
, fomr the wonderfull
, heart
- pounding score to the constant yelling of panicking men
, make sure you see this at a theater with surround
- sound
? otherwise
, do not see it all
. the best parts of u
- 571 are when tyler isnt forced to make impromptu descisions on how to escape seemingly impossible situations
. throughout the movie
, several morals or cahracters are introduced to make tyler
' s job as stressful as possible
. germans gun down their own men
, tyler
' s mentor captain dahlgren warns him that a captain has to be prepared tothe sacrifice even the most beloved soldiers for a victory
, another sailor
( erik palladino
) threatens mutiny
. all of these examples
,
and several others
, increase the chaotic atomsphere
and the importance of tyler
' s every move
. they also make u
- 571 one of the most exhilarating movies i have seen in a while
.