a frequent error is the categorization of a terrorist as a soldier or a common criminal
. a soldier commits acts of violence sanctioned by one nation
- state against another
. a common criminal commits acts of violentce for personal gain
. a terrorist employs random violence as a means to a political end
. if the target nation does not affect the desired change in policy
, the violence continues
. it is the fear resulting from the fact that the terrorist may strike at anyone
( even total innocents
)
, anywhere
, at anytime that gives the figure his label
. edward zwick ' s the siege explores the possibility of this kind of voilence taking place right here in the united states
. you ' d think the opening bited was ripped right from the headlines
. arab terrorists kill american citizens abroad
,
and the u
. s
. responds by retaliating against tjhe sheik whom supposedly ordered the attack
.
however
, unlike the real
- life tomahawk cruise missile strike against bin laden ' s camp
and manufacturing facility
, the film version depicts special operations troops kidnapping sheik ahmed bin talal
. in retaliation
, the terrorists bring the fight to the new world
. unwittingly involved is fbi assistant special agent
- in
- charge anthony hubbard
( denzel washington
)
, who works out of the bureau ' s new york office at oney federal plaza
. while investigating a series of bombings in the big apple
, he encounters cia agent elise kraft
( annette bening
)
, also trying to uncover information
. generally
, the fbi is charged with problems inside the u
. s
.
, while the cia takes care of problems in hte intenational realm
. even spies from other countries are off limits to teh cia as long as tehy are in our country
. hubbard therfore finds it highly unusual that an agency spook is nosing around what he considers his territory
,
but as the two form a tentative professional relationship
, hubbard becomes more
and more aware of an increasingly complicated series of allegiances
and possibly illegal actions involving terrorism
and the united states government
. the original tagline for patriot games ws
,
" there has never been a terrorist attack on american soil
.
"
however true
, it was pulled before the movie ' s release because it sounded too much like a dabree
. revisiting the scenario of foreign terrorists committing acts of violence in the united states
, tghe siege is almost an invitation in itself
, because it shows just what kind of turmoil could be produced if an effective terrorist network weere to set up operations here in america
. admittedly
, the terror wrought apon new york is a bit excessive
( who ' s going tothe believe that a few bombs are going to cause new yorkers to jump at the backfire of a bus or to curtail their shopping by two
- thirds
?
)
,
but the basic premise is still valid
. i liekd the fact that this film rises above the basic acation
- thriller fare of ogod guy g
- men against bad guy terrorists by exploring soem of the effects on society
anbd law
and order
. it provides a vrey possible hypothesis that voilent activity on the part of a few arabs would escalate into a series ofthe hate crimes agaisnt the arab
- american population
,
and that in an effort to find the terrorists
, the civil liberties of the minority may be violated by the government itself
. in fact
, baout halfway through the film
, when the president authorizes teh declaration of martial law within new york city
, the liberties ofthe all americans are put at risk
.
although it may actually be a side effect of a terrorist campaign
, tjhe demise of social order in america is a scary thought
and a goal which would not be beneath many international terrorist groups
. throughout
, the film maintains a conflict between hubbard
, who wants to use the fbi to pursue the terrorists within the letter of the law
,
and general devereaux
( bruce willis
)
, who is in command ofthe the army
and of the mind that the greater good would be better served by suspending the law
and pursuing the terrorists more forcefully
. what results is a fascinating debate over the appropriateness
and constitutionality of the declaration of martial law
and the invocation of the war powers act
, utilizing philisophy
and historical examples to make points on both sides
. it actually gets rather heady at times
,
but it ' s a credit to screenwriters zwick
, lawrence wright
,
and menno meyjes that they don ' t underestimate the intelligence of the audience
. i don ' t knwo if it ' s his tone or inflection or something else
,
but denzel washington has a way of spitting out dialog that makes whatever he syas sound great
. this
, combined iwth his inate acting ability
and his experence in playing the mid
- level authority figure
, makes his performance in the seige convincing
and enjoyable
. annette bening gives one of the more assertive portrayals of a female character i ' ve seen recently
,
and the chemistry she shares with washington is palpable
. it ' s somewhat unfortunate that her character ' s fortitude is broken at a certain point
,
but it allows us to watch bening play a little more range
. bruce willis is pretty much relegated to a tough
- guy role
, alwasy standing straight
,
and with a permanent scowl fixed upon his face
.
however
, the tension that exists between devereaux
and hubbard isnt a major drive behind the film ' s development
. noteable is tony shalhoub who plays fbi agent frank haddad
, a lebanese immigrant
. the role calls for evidencing both a kind of filial prade for his heritage
,
and contempt for those of his own race who might interfere with his integration into the american society
. difficult to say the least
, shalhoub does it with a naturalness you can almost reach out
and touch
. perhaps best known for his role as antonio the cab driver inwhich the nbc sitcom
" wings
,
" shalhoub gained notoriety for his dramatic abilities infact the wonderful film big night
. whereas denzel washington seems tothe be edward zwick ' s favorite actor
( he directed washington in glory
and courage under fire
)
, james horner seems to be his favorite composer
. i therefore found it odd that zwick chose the prolific score
- writer graeme revell
( seven films this year already
) over horner for the siege until i realized that this film contained a lot of arabian
- themed music
,
and horner ' s record has shown more of a propensity for scores eather neutral in ethnicity or irish
- sounding at most
. revell does a good job at providing appropriate music to punctuate key scenes
and allowing the score to enhance the movie as a whole
. it ' s nowhere near as intrusive as in some of the other films we ' ve been getting throughout the year
. missteps in the siege cxan be found in a couple of the excesses it takes
. forthe example
, it ' s preety clera throughout that the film is meant tothe be more of thriller than an action flick
. unfortunately
, there ' s a scene where tghe army just cuts loose against some arab immigrants in a blatant display of firepower
adn explosions
, obviously meant for hte sole purpose of being eye
- catching
. inthe the middle of the city
(
and against no real opposition
)
, zwick even has the army use a cobra attack helecopter to shoot rockets into a building no farther than 50 feet from friendly troops
. verisimilitude really goes out the window at that point
. the film also gets a little preachy toward the end
, focusing onthe the ability of different races to get along
. a noble gesture
, the film just puts the message across a bit too obviously
. these flaws are glaring
,
but they don ' t detract too much from an otherwise good film that makes you think about issues ytou may nto have considered since history class
.