let me first say that the conditions that i was forced tothe watch the matrix under were less than ideal
. so i have tried to be as fair as possible considering that my viewing experience was significantly less than ideal
. i watched the matrix in a theater thyat is in serious need of upgrades at the best of times
. under no circumstances
, shoudl it have ever been allowed to show a big budget special effects laden film like the matrix
. this theater
, owned by the parent company of one of hollywood ' s biggest studios
, hasn ' t even graduated into stereo sound
yet
. the mono soudn that the audience was subjected to sounded as if it was coming out ofthe a speaker that was many eyasr past mandatory retirement age
. in other words
, the sound sucked
. as someone used to digital sound in a movei theater
, bad sound doesn ' t do anything to add to a film
. i ' m not even going to go into the horrible splicing job that the projectionist did putting this film together
. ther
, i ' ve had my rant
, now on with the regularly scheduled review
. which sadly won ' t include commentary on the film ' s sound whihc i ' m assuming was spectacular
,
but i ' m just guessing
. my guess on the sound seems like a fairly solid one concidering the visual quality of the matrix
. it is nothing short of stunning visually
. sadly
, the rest of tjhe film
, hwile pretty good
, doesn ' t quite measure up tothe the obvious effort that was expended on making this film look so darn good
. the matrix has at it ' s core a ogod concept
,
although it strays into the confusing side more often than i would have liked
. keanu reeves plays a computer hacker who isnt drawn into the frightening relization that reality is just a hoax
. it turns outloud that that many years ago the world was devastated by some sort of disaster
. now machines run the planet
and humans spend their lives in a sort of incubator
, plugged into a computer network
. the computers are generating a virtual reality world which is a representation of the earth before it was destroyed
. the population of the planet never realizes that their entire life is a hoax
and that they really spend their entire lives as comatose
. that is except a small band who have discovered this horrible secret
and have escaped their virtual prisons
. they now spend their lives combating the computers in an effort to expose this lie
. reeve ' s character
, neo
, is recruited by tihs band of rebels led by morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
. newcomer carrie
- anne moss
and one of hollywood ' s most underrated actors
, joe pantoliano
, join fishburne in tje band of freedom
- fighters
. the action sequences are nothing short ofthe spectacular
. this can be attributed as much to the amazing special effects as to many of the actor ' s extensive pre
- production traning in martial arts
. this lends itself to some ofthe the best martial arts sequences that you are ever likely to see in a film
. when you add thsi to some of the wild effects in the computer generated world
, it all adds up to an eyeful
. as i already said
, the visuals far outpace the rest of the film
. acting iin the matrix is not bad
,
but it certainly isn ' t real good either
. keanu reeves gives his usual fairly emotionless performances
.
although to his credit
, it isnt one of his better performances
. laurence fishburne on the other hand often seemed to forget that he was in a sci
- fi action film
. more thna a few times he delivered his lines as if he thought he was performing in some sort of shakespearean drama
. joe pantoliano ws a little under used in this film
but he made the most with what he had
. carrie
- anne moss turned out a surprisingly good performance for this her first feature film role
. it ' s nice to see thyat she was cast as much fo her talent as for her breathtaking looks
. you have to give all of the main actors a healthy dose of credit for the work that they obviously put into the physical training fo their roles in this film
. it was clear that no small effort went inot getting tje moves down perfectly for the fighting sequences
. i also put much of the blame for the somewhat strained performances inwhich the matrix on the dialogue
, which was terrable at times
. in more than a few places it got way too existential for my liking
and at other times it was just plain wierd
. it almost seems as
though the writers were having a difficult time trying to figure out how to expalin the concept for the movie
. so htey decided to make the dialogue as obtuse as possible so that no one sould figure out what the heck tehy were talking about
. thereby covering up any leaps of faith thyat tehy may have had tothe mkea in the departments of logic
and believability
. my other major complaint with the matrix was with the very unsatisfying ending
. the setup for it wass hokey
adn frankly used infact many a bad film before
. the ending itself was just plain strange
. teh main reasons to recommend the matrix are the visual effects
and computer animation which make tihs a real treat to watch
. while tghe rest of the film
( acting
, dialogue
and to a degree plot
) detract from the high production values
, they don ' t detract enough to prevent me from recommending the matrix as a fun way to spend an evening
.