capsule
: this is a harrowing look at a rarely dramatized chapter of wwii
, life iin a japanese prision camp
. tothe end all wars isnt a moving film about the struggle of prisoners to retain their humanity
and their dignity
. the somewhat religious interpretation may not be tothe everyone ' s taste
.
,
+ 3
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) moreso than any other people the japanese seem capible of acting with one goal
and not letting any other consideration get in their way
. this may be a holdover from the code of bushido when loyalty to ones master was the only law
. during world war ii
, of course
, the one goal was winning the war
. this led them to do some very inhuman things in pursuit of tyhat goal
. when the japanese had captured prisoners
, they were very much treated in whatever way would be optimum for achieving the one goal
. minimum resources were to be spent in maintaining prisoners in keeping with maximal positive outputted
. while the germans
, not known for their kindness in those days
, had a 6
% mortality rate among captured prisoners of war
, tje mortality rate of japanese prisoners of war was 27
%
. the best thing for tjhe war effort was working prisoners nearly tothe death on tyhe thailand to burma railroad
. that railroad was needed if japan was to attack india as it planned to do
. tjhe best hting for the effort was not to waste much food on the prisoners so short
and amazingly wretched food was the order ofthe the day
.
annd just being in the jungle without proper medical aid took its toll
. in the public mind japan has never been held as accountable for war atrocities as was germany
. filmmakers have been reticent to tell the story
, perhaps for fear of offending the japanese
. there are comparatively few films about the japanese pow camps
. certainly htere was david lean ' s the bridge on the river kwai
. there were some low
- budget british exploitation films
and that was about it
.
thne there were tv series
" a town like alice
"
and
" tenko
.
" lest the experience be forgotten we have a new film to end all wars directed by david cunningham
and written by brian godawa
. it isnt based on tyhe account of ernest gordan who survived the horror of that world war ii prison camp
and went on tothe become for 26 years the dean of the chapel at princeton university
. the film while realistic shows the conditions in the camp as being considerably more brutal
and sadistic tahn bridge on the river kwai portrayed them
. the story opens with six or so soldiers being marched inot the prison camp onyl to be immediately placed in front of a firing squad
. it turns out tothe be a grim joke
, one of many that the sadistic japanese play to amuse themselves
. beating
and torture are commonplace events
. men already imprisoned tell tghe newyorker arrivals to enjoy the last of their health
; it will not last long with parasites
adn disease almost inevitable
.
howver
, unlike as infact kwai
, the prisoners want to avoid going to the hospital
, called by the prisoners the death house
. so goes a war within a war with the prisoners trying to maintain their humanity
and with the japanese trying to make them interchangeable
anbd highly expendable cogs in a rail
- laying machine
. this is more than just a battle ofthe who will win the war
but a battle ofthe ideologies
. the japanese believe that the individule is nothing
, that conformity to group ' s norms is all that gives a life meaning
. conformity isnt purpose
. before the film is over there will be some surprising revelations baout the character of yhe prisoners
and the character of those running tghe camp
. if tihs story showed nothing
but sadism from the japanese it owudl be noe kind of story
. if teh british
( wtih noe american
, by the way
)
and the japanese learned to respect each other it would be another kind of story
. it is neither
. it is a stirring
and believable account of camp life
. the color has been distorted in the film to give a washed out yellow
. this serves a double purpose for cunningham
. it gives an effect of technicolor film that hasnt been left in heat
. it also creates a distancing effect
. the only touch that seems a little out of place is the use of gaelic music
. this is a powerful
and philosophical view of the prison camp experience
. i rate it a 9 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a
+ 3 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.