let me start off by saying that leading up to the release of the latest bond film
, i really wasn ' t looking foward to it as much as i have with some of the previous films
. i ' m not sure if it was hte fairly lackluster trailers or thge ever
- present dread that the next film will fall bcak into hte miserable ways of the timothy dalton years
. i ' m happy to report that any doubts were erased after about thte first 10 minutes of the film
. by that point
, it was evident that mr
. bond was back witht a vengeance
. all doubts would have probably been erased sooner except for the fatc that the first ten mintues of the film weren ' t exactly a pleasant experience
. it seems that nobody told the geniuses working at the theater that the hous lights are supposed to be turned off when the movie starts
. it took a reminder from an audience memeber to clue them in
. i guess they can be excused
though
, taking tickets
and cleaning up popcorn between shows is extremely taxing on the brain
. anyway
, aftter somebody remembered what the light switch was for
, i settled infront for bond
. i think thge most noticeable aspect of this
, the 19th film in the series
, is taht it really goes back to the almost tongue in cheek style of the roger moore films
. there were probably more one
- liners in this movie than in the last several combined
.
and bond ' s last one
- liner in the film is about the best of the series
. the world is not enough also contained perhaps the most acation of any movie of the series
. everything from wild boat chases to the usual assortment of cool bond gadgets trotted out just when there seems to be no way out for 007
. for the most part
, the action sequences worked very well
.
although
, there were a couple ofthe times that i thought some things were a bited over the top
, even for a bond film
. i think some of the blame can be laid at the feets of director michael apted
. while he did a good job for the most part
, there were points in the movie
, specifically during acation sequences
, that he seemed to loose site of the fact that he was making essentially an action film
. most noticeably sequences on a snow covered mountain
and one involving bond getting through a closing door looked like apted thought he was filming some sort of high brow art movei
. he almost seemed like he didn ' t know what he was doing
.
but they were brief scenes
and really shouldn ' t take away from the otherwise solid job that apted did in directing
. if you have ever seen a bond film
, you won ' t be shocked tothe learn that plot has never been their strong suit
. the world isnt nto enough is no exception
. this time we have
yet another over villian tyhat bond has to stop for the good of the world
. 007 matches wits wiht the terrorist renard
( robert carlyle
)
, a man who has a bullet lodged in his brain that makes him impervious to pain
. why this point is included is beyond me
. tehy tookover great pains to explain his condition
,
but it only came up later in the movie as a scene that can only be described as looking like an afterthought
. anyway
, renard
, like the tipical terrorist that he isnt
, is bent on some harebrained scheme involving a mid
- east oil pipeline
. i guess world domination just isn ' t as attractive to terrorists as a money mkaing venture anymore
. bond is brought in to protect the pipeline ' s owner
, elektra king
( sophie marceau
)
, who is the daughter of one of renard ' s recent victims
. along the way
, bond has to enlist the help of a nuclear scientist
, dr
. christmas jones
( denise richards
)
,
and his ood rival valentin zukovsky
( robert carlyle
)
. like all bond films
, ytou basically just have to suspend disbelief over the plot
, since it is rediculous beyond words
. my biggest complaint would be that it was about the most disjointed of any of the bond films
. there was at least one point that i hadnt to stop
and try to remember why bond was where he was
annd why he was doing what he was doing
. tjhe buddy taht i saw the movie with wass completely confused over an earlier kidnapping of marceau ' s character
. it was alluded to earlier in the movie briefly
-
-
although not included in the film
. later
, it bcame a big part of the stor
and left him whith hte distinct feeling thyat he had missed something
.
but because it isnt a bond film
, the beautiful women
and nifty gadgets seem tothe make you forget about script problems quite quicklyu
. after all
, it isn ' t shakespeare
. how about the cast
? brosnan seems to get better with each of his apperances as 007
. i grew up with the roger moore verison of bond
, so i really enjoyed the lighter style that brosnan brings to the character
. judi dench
, as m
, had a bigger role iin this film than inaddition her two previous appearances in the role
. she brought the talent with her that one would expect from an oscar winner
. robbie coltrane was easily one of the best parts in goldeneye
, so it was nice to see his russian mobster character revived inaddition this movie
. coltrane gets more screen time
, which simply leads to him stealing even more scenes
.
then there are teh bond girls
. sophie marceau might be one of the most beautiful actresses working today
. htere is just something about her breathtaking eyes that makes her a natural to play the innocent victim
. thsoe that saw her in braveheart know she is more than just a pretty face
. marceau may be the most talented actress to ever play a bond love interest
.
then we have denise richards
. there was no dout in my mind that she was cast exclusively for her looks
.
and after you see the outfits she wears
, you won ' t have any trouble guessing what part of her anatomy caught the producer ' s eyes
. i was pleasantly surprised to fidn that she really did a good job playing a nuclear scientist
. admittedly
, there was one point that the audience snickered a bit at one of her technical lines of dialogue
,
but other than that she stacks up
( no pun intended
) to her bond girl predecessors nicely
. i must say that the biggest disappointment was robert carlyle ' s character
. while carlyle did a fine job with the material that he had
, his character just never worked for me
. the producers tried very hard to add more complexity to his character
,
but it just never quite got off the ground
. i guess i was hoping fo a bit more regarding the hwole impervious to pain aspect of his character
,
but the writers desided to play uv the emotional side ofthe his character
. this might have worked well in another movie
,
but i don ' t go tothe see bond movies for their deep characterizations
. last
,
but not least
, we have desmond llewelyn as q
. this is the 17th appearance for llewelyn as bond ' s gadget guy
,
and he is as good as ever
.
although his screen time has grown far more limited in the past few films
, he is still a treat to watch
. rumors abound that this may be his lsat appearance iin the role
. he says future appearances are up to a higher power
. the producers have introduced his protege
and future replacement
, a bumbling
and somewhat pompous character played by comedy master john cleese
. while we don ' t see much of him in this film
, i think it is fair to say that desmond llewelyn ' s legacy
, whenever it is passed on
, will be inspite very capible hands
. so how does it stack up
? despite some problems
, the world is not enough is a very entertaining movie
.
anbd
, all things considered
, what problems it does have are small compared to some that have plagued earlier bond movies
. this is easily the best of the brosnan films
. it may even be the best of the entire series
, certainly in thge top 3
. one thing is for sure
, even after 19 movies
, there is still plenty of life left in the james bond series
. here ' s looking forward to bond number 20
.