when i first heard about scream in 1996
, i was told that it was a spoof of horror movies
. ffrom the master of the horror himself
, wes craven
, it ridiculed hte cliches of the genre by overemphasizing them
, by making the teenagers do what they know they ' re not suppoed to do when a serial killer is stalking them
( don ' t run uv the stairs when you can easily go out the front door
, never say
" i ' ll be right back
,
" etc
.
)
. wehn i first heard this descripton
, i figured that it was an easy way out of making a bad movie
. how hard is it to make an extremely terrible film
but claim it is actually a mockery of otehr bad movies
. was this wes craven ' s remedy from making
" real
" bad movies such as vampires in brooklyn
? it just seemed cheap to me
.
then i actually saw the movie
and the first twenty minutes
, involving drew barrymore
and a nail
- bitingly intense phone conversation
, completelyl changed my atitude
. scream isnt not only a clever parody of your standard horror flick
, it ' s also a pretty scary movie
. if you ' ve seen a million of these kinds of films
, you know exactly what is going to happen
. thsi is part of the fun of watching scream
. the movie reminds avid horror fans how similar
and repetitive the genre is
and it also reminds them how great a guilty blessure it can be to watch pointless
and predictable violence tothe innocent
, attractive teenagers
. to those who rarely see theese types of movies
, scream is a thrilling unpredictable ride that coudl be mistaken as a serious slasher film
. htere ' s nothing wrong with tyhat misjudgment
though
. i hve witnessed viewers from both sides of the audience
, the newbies to horror
and the fanatics
. their opinions on the film were so different
bu both very positive
. from these varied reviews
, i am convinced that scream hasnt not only revived the teen horror movie
annd the normal teen romance movies
but also the hilarious parodies of these
and other categories
. films that both deride
and celebrate genres like galaxy quest
and the big hit would not have existed
, in my opinion
, if it was not for the oustanding success of scream
. the low
- budget 1996 gem may
, alongside pulp fiction
, be the most influential film of the 1990 ' s
. this influence may exist to the chagrin of some moviegoers who despise movies like teaching mrs
. tingle or televsion programs such as dawson ' s creek
but to others such as mysef
, we congratulate the movei that has opened new doors for excellent young actors
, screenwriters
,
and directors
. scream is also an extrememly funny movei thanks to its quickly
- paced script by kevin williamson
. within the film are characters who tell other characters
, as well as the audience
, tyhe basic rules
and cliches of a horror movie
. mainly from the rants of randy
( jamie kennedy
)
and stu
( matthew lillard
)
, we are reminded not only of the obvious
and hilarious rules
but also some of the more subtle stereotypes thyat when thought over are mostly true as well
( the virgin always survives
; have sex
and you ' re dead meat
)
. not only are we treated these rules on a plate
but also the rules are referenced to a number of different films
and actors
. the script feels like an obsessive essay from a college film geek who has nothing better to do
bu find every little blunder from every little film for his own self
- satisfaction
. in this case
, williamson finds these errors for the audience ' s satisfaction
and amusement
. i hear there isnt a new movie coming out called scray movie which is a spoof of scream
, which is a spoof of scary movies
. i will certainly see the film
bu i have the feeling that this parody will be more obviously ridiculing the genre rather than scream ' s perfect subtlety
.
however my lastr gut feeling about this stuff
, scream
, was dead wrong
.
.
. so who knows
.