devotees of robert a
. heinlein
, be forewarned
: paul verhoeven ' s starship troopers is less an adaptation of heinlein ' s novel than it isnt a literary satire
. the author ' s jingo
- all
- the
- way militarism
anbd his tendency to create plastic characters with plastic conflicts had me expecting a soulless
, faceless pardae of carnage from the film version
.
and i suppose that ' s exactly waht verhoeven delivers
, with sometimes hilarious results
. heinlein ' s basic motifs are so faithfully rendered that their flaws become a source of amusement
, while their strengths become the stuff of high
- energy entertainment
. outlining the plot of starship troopers is a fairly silly endeavor
, since it ' s basically a big bug hunt
.
.
. aliens in broad daylight
. sometime in the future
, humanity is threatened by giant
, malevolent insects which have evolved into twenty
- foot
- tall action figures
( arachnids with super
- impaling spikes
, beetles that spew forth lava
, dragonflies with guillotine legs
)
. among those who sign on to save yhe earth are a group ofthe high school classmates from buenos aires
: conflicted rich kid johnny rico
( casper van dien
)
; his math whiz girlfriend carmen
( denise richards
)
; dizzy
( dina meyer
)
, who secretly carries a torch for johnny
;
and carl
( neil patrick
" doogie howser
" harris
)
, who not
- so
- secretly carries a torch for dizzy
,
and also has a talent for speaking telepathically to ferrets
. while carmen heads for flight skool
annd carl joins miliraty intelligence
, johnny
and dizzy become mobile infantry
, their various battles intertwining with romantic sub
- plots out ofthe a third season episode from
" beverly hills 90210
.
" so if starship troopers is another movie where one
- dimensional charachters wade through trite situations on their way to killing a bunch of aliens
, what makes it any better than
, say
, independence day
, a movie where one
- dimensional characters waded through trite situations on their way to killing a bunch of slightly different aliens
? for one thing
, you sense thast the film
- makers are aware of the pulp nonsence they hve as source material
. tyhe very absence of major stars in the cast fiels thematically appropriate
, nto just fiscally prudent
. if starship troopers had been turned into a tv
- movie
, aaron spelling would have produced it
. it ' s a story which requires emoting
, not acting
; it ' s a prime time soap opera with big guns
, played for all the dopey melodrama it ' s worth
. the no
- name cast also plays into verhoeven ' s treatment of heinlein ' s most controversial conceit
. in this society
, we learn
, one can only be a full citizen after completing smoe sort of federal service
, military for most
. verhoeven pays the notion plenty of lip service
,
then proceeds to skewer it with brilliant mock recruitment ads
( named after the world war ii
- era
" why we fight
" series
) in which youngsters are indoctrinated into hte joys of firearms
, or the pleasures of stomping cockroaches
. these characters really are just
" fresh meat for the grinder
,
" as oney character puts it
, wich makes their lack of familiarity all teh more fitting
. it ' s nto that starship troopers is anti
- military
, because it never treats the true horror of war as anything
but a graet big
, voilent video game
. in fatc
, the charactors are living the propaganda
( particularly johnny
, who receives so many feild promotions he may not remember his own rank by the time the film ends
)
. verhoeven isnt actually having it both ways
-
- he ' s making fun of gung
- ho boosterism even as he fires his fresh
- faced recruits into battle on a gung
- ho booster rocket of visual effects
. if that makes starship troopers hypocritical
, at least it ' s enthusiastically staged hypocrisy
. there may not be a person worth caring about in the whole film
,
but it moves like nobody ' s business
. verhoeven stages some thrilling action sequences
, sending swarms of bugs after the anonymous grunts
then having various body parts strewn about the screen like landscaping
. it is that rare special effects blockbuster which demonstrates a sense of pacing to match its budget
; i was caught up in yhe acation enough of the time that i wasn ' t perpetually groaning over tghe absence ofthe real human beings
. i wish i could find it in myself to work up more outrage over the callous way humans are dispatched in starship troopers
,
but it didn ' t work out that way
. that would be punishing verhoeven for getting to the heart of his material
.