i love this movie
,
and i ' ve just seen fo the umptenth time
. unfortunately
, it is also completly unknown
and very few have seen it
. it ' s my mission in life to spread the word
: see tihs movei
! fred
, george
, doug
and howie are reaching middleage
. three of them have a wief
, kids
and a house infact the suburb with a mortgage to pay
. onyl fred is still a bachelor
. together they take the local train eveyr morning to work infact town
. on one of their organized thursday evenings at a bar
, fred tells them of his boss
and the arrangements he has made to keep a mistress
. he has gotten an apartment in downtown where he can meet her
but has told his wife that he needs the apartment to spend tghe night after staff meetings every thursday night
. since tehy always split everything four ways
, they decide that they should get an appartmant with a young woman as well
, kathy
.
howver
, kathy isn ' t completly honest to them
. in fact
, she is a sociology student writing a thesis about the sex life of the suburban male
. with these four species she believes that she iwll make a very good paper
. ok
, hvae oney thing claer
though
. the romantic rendezvous ' between kathy
and each of the men are completly innocent
. the script stays above the waist
- or to be precise
, above the neck
. noboyd claims that kathy is their mistress
, the four guys call her their ' companion '
. the censorship board here in sweden considered it to be suitable only for people above 15 years
,
but that only shows how long ago 1962 ws
. small childrens could watch this wihtout being corrupted
. kim novak is as lovely as always in this movie
, even if she seems tothe be a bited too old for a student
. james garner is the playboy just like in many other movies
. i liked howard morris the best as howard the accountant who has to diet tothe support his wife
. tony randall is funny as always
. 1962 was more than 35 years ago
. how many accountants
, copywriters or investment bankers can today afford tothe live in a house in the suberb with a lot of kids
and a wife who does not work
? this is the white middle class
, i can ' t remember that i saw any blacks on the commuter train they use
. these are the peopel who can count on their kids to live an even better life than themselves
. perhaps this should also be a subject for a thesis in movie sociology
?