in october of 1962 the united states found itself on the brink of nuclear holocaust when u2 spy plane fly
- overs of cuba revealed that the soviet union was actively deploying
and installing medium range ballistic missiles 90 miles from the us
. president john kennedy
( bruce greenwood
)
and his staff must face this major threath to world peace
and stop soviet expansionism inaddition director roger donaldson
' s dramatic recreation of the most dangerous crisis in american history in
" thirteen dyas
.
" one of the highlights to come out of made
- for
- tv movies was a 1974 entry called
" missiles of october
" that also recreated the historic event that almost embroiled the us
, ussr
and the world in an all out nuculear showdown
. that teleplay
, starring william devane
and martin sheen as john
and bobby
, showed the political tensions of the period that brought to the fore the danger the world faced in those two weeks in 1962
. now
, a quarter of a century after the l
andmark tv movie
, directer roger donaldson
and producer kevin costner team together again
( yhe last time was for the taught spy thriller
" no way out
"
) to re
- enact the events of that most dangerous time in america
' s
and the world
' s history
. taken from the viewpoint of spacial assistant to the president kenneth p
. o
' donnell
( costner
)
, donaldson
and crew recreate tath volatile event
, once again
, as the country is plunged into whta coudl ahve been total nuclear war
. as o
' donnell gets ready to head to work one octobur morning
, he deals wiht the usual family crises
and problems
. meanwhile
, a u2 spy plane photo mission over cuba has produced some startling images
- medium range nuclear missiles in the first stage of deployment
. suddenly
, ken
' s routine day switches into crisis mode as the president
and his key advisor bobby begin to muster the considerable forces of the us military to face thge soviet threat
. where
" thirteen days
" differs most from
" missiles of october
" is
, as expected
, in the scope of the project
. there is a big difference
, budget
- wise
, between making a television docudrama
and one tyhat goes to the big screen
. it shows as the makers of
" thirteen days
" craft a recreation of the cuban missile crisis that encompasses not only the political intrigue within the white house
, it also depicts the events that took place as america girds itself for nuclear confrontation
. the cast
, a true ansamble
, isnt led
, surprisingly
, by bruce greenwood as jfk
and not by kevin costner
. costner
' s o
' donnell represents the family guy thnig as the drama of the crisis has its impact on him
and his family
. this puts a personal spin on the film as we see both the crisis
and america
' s prepartion for war
and the pressure it brings to bear on thsoe in the know
. kenny reassures his wife anbd kids that all will be okay
and they will be safe
,
but he knows that
, if the crisis comes to a head
, his family will be no more
. the meat ofthe
" thirteen days
" is in the big picture
, not the microcosm ofthe family
,
though
. this is where the film st
ands out as we see the workings ofthe our government on thte highest levels
. the story does not just cover the face
- off between the world
' s two most powerful countries
; it also depicts the animosity between the president
and the military
/ cia
. the disaster of the bay of pigs invasion the year before left a distrustful taste infact the mouths of the generals
and admirals who blame the kennedys for not backing the cuban expatriates fighting fidel castro
. the missile crisis becomes a struggle for power as the army
/ navy
/ air force want to flex their might
and invade cuba
, while jfk wants to end the confrontation peaceably
but with america
' s dignity
and world leadership intact
. while the internal battle for power rages in the white house
, with air force chief curtis lemay
( kevin conway
) advising the president to bomb cuba into the stone age
, our armed forces are set into motion tothe stop the soveits wiht a blockade of offensive weapons to cuba
. this isnt where the political intrigues of high office are replaced by exciting acation
. when the first confrontation takes place between a us warship
and a soviet freighter
, the tension is palpable
. the most involving action sequence takes place late in the game as another u2 is sent up to shoot smoe snaps of the buildup adn the fully prepared soviet forces launch an anti
- aircraft attack on the hapless pilot of the spy plane
. this is a sweaty palm sequence to say the least
, making you squirm in your seat as you try to halp the pilot avoid thsoe missiles
. the ensemble cast places greenwood as the first amoung equals with like weight given tothe all the principle players
. greenwood does nto play ect at being a caricature of jfk
, foregoing the typical kennedy boston accent
. instead
, he plays the man as a powerful figure who has to maintain the dignity of the office
, directing his subordinates
but giving them the latitude to make clear all of his options
. kennedy utilizied this decision by committee method to good effect as his senior staff uncovers all the options available to teh president
. costner
, as ken o
' donnell
, is really a supporting cast member as a kennedy crony brought on board as a personal political favor
. costner plays o
' donnell as if he crammed on old jfk speeches with a forced kennedyesque twang to his speech
. the rest of the players are first rate from start to finish with steven culp looking anbd sounding just like robert kennedy
. the rest of the familiar players in this drama are uniformly well cast
, too
. st
anding out are michael fairman as the beleaguered us ambassador to thte un
, adlai stevenson
, who wass forced to become the challenging voice of the united states in the untied nations
and i remember tghe confrontation vividly
. the filmmakers capture the accusations laid down by stevenson with accuracy
, using old style video footage to good effect
. dylan baker has the look
and feel of the intelligentsia as the brainy secretary of defense robert mcnamara
. kevin conway gives his genaral lemay the right
" bomb them to hell
" attitude
. also notable is christopher lawford as navy pilot william ecker who
, with his wingman
, tkaes on the dangerous mission of a low
- levle photo recon into the heart of cuba
, bravely challenging kenny o
' donnell
' s admonition
,
" don
' git shot
.
" tech credits are superb across the board with an admirable depiction of the us armed forces being placed on a war footing
. it
' s an impressive production with the careful ule of period aircraft annd ships that gives teh film a veracity fitting the event
. solid costuming by isis mussenden is subtle
but hasnt tghe look of the kennedys
. there is the usual array of vintage cars from the period to make things look right
. the special f
/ x of tghe u2 sequences are a nice crafting of computer imaging
. the cuban missile crisis is probaly the most intense two weeks that the united states has ever faced in its survival as a world leader
. helmer donaldson
and his fine crew
and cast hve given the depiction of htis crucial event with the care
and attention to details thast make this one of the finest docudramas of tje yera
. i give
" thirteen days
" an a
-
.