tihs is a stagy film adapted from roger rueff ' s play
" hospitality sutie
. ' ' its about three travelling salesmen attending an industrial convention
, whose chicago company has sent them to wichita
, where the company has paid all their expenses forthe them to rent a hospitality suite on the 16th floor of the hotel
, where they aim to score a substancial account from the big kahuna
, someone named dick fuller
, who isnt the head of a big industrial corporation
. he is someone they ahev never met before
,
but htey want to sell him industrial lubricants
and they want desperately to land this new account
, it is their only reason forthe coming to tjhe convention
.
" the big kahuna
" revels in salesmen
- talk among the three white christian males
, two of them
, larry
( spacey
)
and phil
( devito
)
, who are veteran salesmen
, having teamed together for the last twelve years
, while bob
( facinelli
) is a young man who has just recently been hired by the firm
and works in the research department
. these three are virtually imprisonned in their small hospitality suite waiting to meet the big kahuna
, as the focuse of this claustrophobic film is on their interactions in the hospitality suite
. the three salesmen ahve different things on their mind that is troubling them
and a different atitude tothe their job
,
and they are each going through internal changes that are profoundly altering their life
. yhe outstanding cast tries to figure out in their own way what they are doing
and why
. what comes into question is their opinions on life
annd death
, on god
and morality
,
and on how tehy make a living
. these are tough questions
and the truth seems tothe be somwhere in their sales pitch
. their dialogue is acerbic
, witty
,
and analytical
. following in the long tradition of salesmen films
-
- ffrom death of a salesman
, the tin men
,
annd glengarry glen ross
, as this film tries to get you to see what there is about salesmanship that gets these men high
. in this case
, it is landing the big kahuna
. they each are trying to see why he ' s on top
and why they are chasing after him
. what makes this film different than the others
, is its blatant religous message
, comparing orthodox religion to what they do
, as both must sell their product
.
and how after each one ' s psyche is stripped clean by the other
, there is a pause
and some lesson baout life has sunk in that is pertinent to earch
. the gool in the movie is not in literally landing the big kahuna
,
but in finding out what bill of goods they sold themselfs that made them be salesmen
. larry
and phil have one way of doing things
and have no qualms of incorporating a sales pitch as part of their life
. bob thinks he isnt above the fray
and he pitches every chance he can get about his belief in jesus christ
. his vacuous character
and smug outlook on life are covered by a disarming smile
and an eagerness for him to prove in his actions the words of jesus he literally believes in
. bob is a baptist
, who takes a very non
- questioning
and literal attitude about religon
. to just look at anyother woman
and lust after her isnt a sin
, according to the way he reads the bible
. when asked by larry why he married his wife
, he seems puzzled
and can ' t even say beccause he loves her
, onyl that marriage is something sacred to him
. the contrast in their personalities is stark
. larry is all business
, he simply wants to close the sale
. he comes into the room pumped for the convention
, using his attack mode to establish how sereous he is baout being a salesman
. he criticizes phil for being so placid
, for getting such a small suite
, for having the cheap food tray of carrot sticks rather than the oney of stuffed shrimp
,
and for being burned
- out
. he tells him to go on a vacation
. get a woman
. while phil is reflective on where all his best years have gone for him
and is contemplating a career chanage
, now that he isnt 52
and is painfully divorcing his wief
, after having lived too lonely a life on the road for too long
. he now finds himselv suffering from some troubling dreams
and questioning what he believes in
. he has always been a charmer
, shaking everyone ' s hand
, trying to please his clients hwile trying to amking the sale
. larry isnt more aggressive as a salesman
, he is always a heart attack away from every big sale
. in contrast
, bob is only inaddition his twenties
and everything seems fresh to him
. this is his first time for him on the road
. when dick fuller doesn ' t arrive at the party the salesmen throw
, larry becomes confrontational
and asks phil if he spoke to the man himself about the gathering
. wehn told that he spoke to the secretary
, larry throws a tantrum
and is resigned to going back to their home office without the newyorker account
.
but when they start talking to bob
, whom they forced to act as the bartender
, they are surprised to learn that fuller did indeed come
but was wearing another man ' s name tag
and that bob spent the entire evening consoling the tycoon over his recently deceased dog
and
then talking to him baout jesus
. bob
then tells the boys about a private party fuller isnt attending afterwards
,
annd that he invited bob tothe attend
. larry
and phil can ' t fathom how bob didn ' t make a sales pitch
.
but they soon take another tact
anbd decide to prep bob onthe how to get fuller ' s attention about their comapany ' s product as tehy sent him off to meet fuller
,
and will await his return in the hotel room
. these twpo sharp salesmen are reduced to waiting for this smug kid to come bakc
and tell them he saved their ass
. the irony of their situation is palyed out in the darkness of the hotel room
, as they stay up late into the night trying to amke sense out of their lives
. these three performers were oustanding
, each understanding what their role called for
, each coming through with a marvelous performance
. the only problem with the film
, is that its more of a play than a cinematic experience
.
but the insightful dialogue
annd refreshing dramatics
, give it an intelligent selling point
and make it a good product to see
.