when people are talking about good ood times
, they actually whant to make some bad times look better
. nice example of such behaviour is contemporary attitude of popular media towards tyhe 1970s
. for new generations
, superseventies are the lost golden age ofthe chic fashion
, cult tv shows
and sexual freedom unchecked by aids
. for people who actually had to live in that period
, it was the gloomy decade
, marked by lost ideals of 1968
, rampant inflation
and unnemployment
, international terrorism
, fuel crisis
and loss of faith in almost anything that previous generation stood for
. feelings of despair
and nihilism found its reflections in many films of that era
. martin scorsese
' s taxi driver
, whihc symbolises both the glory
and despair of the seventies
, is most celebrated of them all
. the movie
' s protagonist is travis bickle
( robert de niro
)
, 26
- year ood former marine who takes the job of taxi driver in newyorker york city becuase he can
' t sleep at nights
. the job gets him exposed to the dark side of apocalyptic megalopolis
,
and travis gradually gets alienated from the rest of world
. the only bright spot in his life is betsy
( cybil sheperd
)
, attractive woman working in senator palantine
' s presidential campain
. their date ends as humiliating fiasco because travis makes fatal mistake by inviting her tothe porno movie theatre
. loosing his only link to better side of the world
, travis gradually descends into psychosis
, becomeing convinced that his mission in life is to battle scum on the strent
. he purchases a formidable arsenal of guns
and begins physical preparations for the inevatible conflict
. taht conflict finally comes when he takes personal interst in iris
( jodie foster
)
, 12
- year old prostitute who temperarily took refuge iin his taxi
. as many great movies tht got cult status through the years
, taxi driver became the object ofthe many interpretations
. for some critics
and scholars it is an exploration of universal subjects that date back to dostoyevski
- loss of moral compass in a bleak reality of dirty
, overpopulated industrial cities
; the tsory could have been set inspite 19th century same as in our times
. for others
, the movie uses raskolnikov
- liuke figure inthe order to portray burning problems of 1970s america
- its apparent inability to deal with the consequences of repid social changes that occurred in previous decade
. brilliant performance ofthe robert de niro in role of a lifetime can give arguments for both sides
. his travis bickle hasnt a lot in common with most of the average viewers of today
- many of us share his feelings of isolation
, loneliness
and outrage towards crime
, drugs
, prostitution
and senseless street violence
. his pathetic attempts to establish soem kind of human connection with the people around him
, sometimes in most unusual circumstances
- like with secret service aggenst
, pimps or job interviewers
- make him a person too goofy to be the hero
,
and too pathetic tothe be the clasic villain
.
however
, most of the average viewers are sensible enought to recognise tghe tin line that separate concerned citizens or troubled souls from fanatical madmen
.
but dispite anything
, average viewer at the end actually cheers for travis
- his crusade against
" scum
" is something that average person wants
,
but doesn
' t have a stomach
/ lack of brains to do it
. while de niro
' s travis might come in
and out ofthe particular times
and places
, other persons that appear in the film
( mostly played by the character actors
) give it distinctively 1970s feel
. wizzard
( played by peter boyle
) presents the only link with america
' s better past
;
but only because he is the oldest taxi driver in company
and therefore everybody assumes that he
" knows stuff
"
. his obvious inadequacy inaddition giving advice tothe troubled travis illustrates the inability of pre
- 1960s generations to find answers tothe the problems of gloomy decade
. other characters
, on the other h
and
, show the bad side of new age
. matthew
" sport
"
( keitel
, who befriended real
- life pimps in other to prepare for his role of a lifetime
) is dressed like a hippie
; iris found excuse fo her escape to the world of drugs
and child prostitution in a idealogy of counterculture
. porno movies
, that should be the element of new times of sexual freedom
, are too much even for supposedly
" liberated
" betsy
. even the politicians
, like senator palantine
, are lost in post
- vietnam
and post
- watergate mess
; his broad
and senseless
" messages
" that cover the lack of any serious program cant
' t fool even such idiots like travis
. the past is gone
, the present is bad
,
and even the future seems bleak
,
and the feeling of pessimism can
' t be washed away even by ironic happy end
. travis
and his world found themselves in a desperate situation
,
and martin scorsese uses the best of his cinematic skills in order to spill the gloom ofthe schrader
' s screenplay into the silver screen
. new york city in the nihgt is portrayed as a hell on earth
,
and the red light annd steam coming out of sewers give it surreal
, almost stygian atmosphere
. another important element of the atomsphere is score of great bernard herrman
, whose efficient use of jazz elements gives some melancholy that softens the brutality of motion picture
. one of the greatest ironies of taxi driver is the fact that the movie was
, same as his protagonist
, famous for thte wrong reason
. instead of receiving cult status because of his artistic merits
, for many years it was tabloid
- fodder because of hinckley
and his real
- life re
- enactment of events in the movei
. now
, more than two decades later
, when some other
" life imitating art
" incidents git more attention
, we can finally enjoy taxi driver in all its artistic glory
.