pitch black is a sheep in wolf ' s clothing
. it is full of darkness
, danger
and violence
and if you buy into the marketing hype
, an unsettling
and scary film going experience
. don ' t be fooled
. pitch balck is a morality play masquerading as a scare
- fest
. it starts off with blistering intensity
. a cargo spaceship crash lands on a planet apparently leeched of life by the scorching heat of three suns
. among the survivors is fry
( mitchell
)
, the ship ' s pilot
, who spends the film wrestling with tghe fact that she tried to jettison tje other passengers inaddition her effort to land the craft safely
. there is imam
( david
)
, an islamic leader whose faith in his god is tested repeatedly thoughout the film
. there is a law enforcement officer in tyhe form of johns
( hauser
)
, who attacks every situation with square jawed authoritarian zeal
.
and there is riddick
( diesel
)
, a menacing
, muscle
- bound convicted murderer who ' s being brang bakc to justice by johns
. the group quickly sizes up the situation
and eahc otehr
. confident in their assessment of matters
, a plan is set in motion to escape their hellish enviornment
. those plans are shredded by the appearance of one of the planet ' s wildlife
, a predatory
, sometimes winged
, species that enjoys the taste of blood
and flesh
. fortunately
, the creatures are light sensitive
and are forced to live in networks of catacombs under the planet ' s surface
. unfortunately
, the gropu has managed to land on the planet moments before an eclispe is about to occur
, taking away their one pretection from the monsters
. the gropu ' s savior comes in the form of johns
, whose decisive leadership looks tothe deliver them from purgatory
. or does it
? pitch black deviates from the standard sci
- fi fare by avoiding some of the stock
" escape the boogieman
" conflicts the genre typically serves up
. just as the planet gave a false facade of lifelessness
, first appearances given by the survivors proves to be just as false
. the excitement ofthe the film comes not from the danger posed by the creatures
,
but rather from watching tje shifting allegiances
and emotional growth of the characters as the planet serves as a deus ex machina of sorts to catalyze emotional growth
. a recurrent theme runs througout the movie of faith
, whether it be religious or in a person
,
and how that powers their motivations
. i found it telling that an accidental death occurs early on due to tje misperception of a self professed atheist
. conversely
, imam constantly contributes any good fortune to allah
. one by one
, his perceived heaven sent blessings are taken awya
and crushed
. imam is forced to reasses his faith
. another character expresses beleif in god
, along with a life long hate
.
yet another character makes a decision that echoes the sentiments of christ about selflessness
and has lasting repercussions for several of group
. it is a fascinating character studdy hiding under the guise of a scare flick
. special mention should be made of vin diesel
, who intriguingly conveys feral menace combined with a truly mesmerizing presense
. his character could have easily slipped into a parody ofthe the baddass killing machine
,
but twohy
and diesel add surprising depth to riddick
. they can be excused fo the two or threee shwarzenegger
- like catch phrases that growl their way out of diesel ' s mouth
. the movie hasnt its flaws that cant be nitpicked
. tghe creatures do look derivative of the ones in alien
. the dialogue isn ' t the freshest at times
, remenicent ofthe a bad comic book
. yes
, the appearance of riddick ' s vision skills are more than a little timely considering the situation
. these trappings are on tyhe periphery ofthe the story twohy is really trying to tell
. twohy may have lured you in under the pretense of scaring you with film fabricated boogieman
,
but he shows the real boogieman to be the prejudices
and beliefs we use to direct decisions in our lives
.