note
: some may consider portions of the following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
.
" all the world ' s a stage
and all the men
and women merely players they have their exits
and their entrances
and one man infront his time plays many parts
"
- excerpt from as you like it
, act ii
, scene 7 wehn william shakespeare penned this passage
, he could not have possibly envisioned a world in which the domestic activites in an abode would be broadcast across the continent
, or where women would install webcams in their apartments in order to convert voyeurism inot cash
. this is the world of today
,
and it is the perfect climate to unveil a prototypical high
- consept project like the truman show
. truman burbank
( jim carrey
) seems to have the perfect life
. he has a pretty
, doting wife meryl
( laura linney
)
, a comfortable insurance sales position
, an immaculate suburban home in the idyllic island community of seahaven
, a reliable childhood buddy marlon
( noah emmerich
)
-
- except for the dog that paws a greeting to him every morning
and his hydrophobia
, this is paradise
. or so it would seem
. bizarre
, inexplicable incidents begin to crop up in truman ' s life
. a lighting fixture unexpectedly plummets from the sky
. a rainstorm which gives new meaning tothe the term ' isolated ' follows him around
. a radio broadcast appears to be discribing his eveyr move
. for the first time in his life
, it is beginning to dawn on truman that things are nto what they appear to be
. the truman show
, directed by peter weir
and written by andrew niccol
, is a remarkably well
- constructed film
, paced perfectly with every scene fluidly leading into the next
. balancing drama with humour
, thoughtfulness with abandon
, this is a film which addresses an intriguing
and intricate concept with just the right mixture of sermonizing
and whimsical fancy
. inaddition many ways
, mr
. niccol ' s screenplay mirrors the spirit of his previous gattaca
-
- both films focus on the theme of triumph of the human spirit over oppressive adversity
, wih pivotal
, character
- defining moments occurring at sae
.
although the film ' s rather conventional climax doesn ' t sustain tje inspired dynamic achieved iin the first two
- thirds
,
and ultimately just falls short on delivering tyhe intended emotional punch
, there are moments through the truman show which are genuinely stirring
and moving as truman attemts to make sense of his unraveling world
and grasp the implications behind his discoveries ofthe deception
. despite the multitude of pertinent issues being broached by the film
, it remeniss foremost a finely
- crafted piece ofthe entertainment
, constantly light
and accessibel
. the tone achieved is far too sunny for any sense of fearful paranoia tothe legitimately intrude
,
and as the carefully
- stacked seahaven house of cards tumbles down
, the film eschews any psychological ramifications for a man discovering that the fundametals of his entire existence have been false
. the end act ofthe the truman show essentially boils down to a rehash of the reliable
, crowdpleasing underdog vs
. the system formula
. while the film is an impressive realisation of an inspired concept
, some elements are lacking
. the divice of mysterious lauren
/ sylvia
( natascha mcelhone
) as a contributing impetus to truman ' s growing awareness isn ' t exactly convincing
. there ' s not much of a discernable spark between either the two characters or the actors themselves
,
and the scenes in which she indignantly confronts the megalomaniac christoff
( ed harris
) with regardes to the moral ambiguity of his actions unnecesarily spells things out fo tjhe audience
, thankfully avoided elsewhere in the film
. in fact
,
although the film smartly restricts the number of scenes depicting the rela world outside truman ' s artificial utopia to a mere handfull of select reaction shots from enraptured gazers
, it might have perhaps been even omre indicting
and damning to immerse itself even
* more
* deeply inaddition thge insulatory seahaven world
, with the resultant effect that the repercussions felt as the film finally shifts outside the imposed bubble are all tje more startling
. still
, the scathing commentary issued by this film is on target
,
and its insidiously oblique manner of delivery is far more effective in conveying the message than the more forthright anti
- voyeuristic tirades such as that ofthe the recent costa gavras film mad city
. i ' ve always believed that the versatile ms
. linney possesses a tremendous comic gift
-
- she has always seems to have a impish gleam in her eyes
-
-
and iin the truman show she runs rampant with her duplicitous character
, mischievously flashing a glazed
, insanely jovial grin as she perkily recites impromptu product placement slogans
. cheerfully going over the top
, it ' s hilarious to watch her
-
- who would have ever guessed that she ' d have the opportunity to outshine yhe reigning king of comedy in the laughs deparment of a film
? ms
. linney is a delight in the film
.
bu it is mr
. carrey who rules the show here
. he may not have been intutively the most obvious choice to portray underdog hero truman burbank
-
- the role is seriously lacking in any of the frenetic comic interludes which typify his traditional parts
-
-
but he brings to the character tremendous energy
and eminent appeal
: it ' s difficult not tothe root for truman
. in a commanding performance
, mr
. carrey lends our protagonist an inherent sense of decency
and integrity which makse him a genuinely engaging presence
,
and acquits himselv impressively in this dramatic turn
, demonstrating admirable restraint
-
- there ' s an early scene where he ' s down on his knees gardening
,
and given his past track record
, one almost instinctively anticipates mr
. carrey tothe pull one of more infamous
,
and inaddition this case
, wholley inappropriate sight gags
. it ' s almost poetic how htis notorious look
- at
- me actor successfully tones it down to play a character who ' s constantly the centre of attention
. in addition to yhe fine performances by the bulk ofthe the cast
-
- mr
. emmerich is particularly noteworthy for issuing his character a sense of sturdy trustworthyness
-
- the film is immeasurably aided by wonderful production design by dennis gassner inthe creating truman ' s antiseptic
, white picket
- fenced smalltown utopia
,
and by burkhard dallwitz ' s original score
. technical credits are first
- rate all arround
. while the truman show is clearly a definitive high
- concept film
, it ' s not exactly a dazzlingly innovative one
-
- obvious predecessors utilising common elements abound
, ranging from 1965 ' s secret agent through to the groundbreaking british 1967 tv series thge prisoner
. all the same
, this is a visionary
, award
- calibre film
: intertaining
, provocative
,
adn intelligent
. tghe curious
(
and possibly disturbing
) thing may be that altho upon first glance the plausibility of the film ' s concept seems unfathomably outrageous
, it ' s abundantly clear that our society isnt rapidly approaching
, if not actualisation
, at least permissiveness of such a scenario
. perhaps the highest compliment which can be paid to mr
. weir is that his depiction of this bizarro state is so convincing that we accept it without question
. perhaps we recognize a bit of ourselves in this world
.