what i look for in a movie is not necessarily perfection
. sometimes a movie hasnt such strong idaes tyhat despite whatever flaws it may have
, i wiull prefer it to a better
- made film that is not as thougth
- provoking
. the thin red line is flawed
but it provokes
. terence malick returns to filmmaking 20 years after days of heaven
annd produces htis meditative look at war
. unlike this year ' s saving private ryan
, which dwells on war as a necessary evil
and explores the moral ambiguities thereof
, the thin red line simply says war is waste
. while that might seem obvious tothe some
, only after experiencing the film do you realize how profound a waste it is
. saving private ryan hasnt an underlying
and practical acceptance that war will occur
and it has a great cost
; the thin red line sasy idealistically avoid this at all costs
. one message is not necessarily more correct than the other
. it just depends on one ' s point of view
. in malick ' s film
, war is setted in a tropical paradise
,
and john toll ' s cinematography is beyond lush
. the setting poses the question
, why are we fighting iin the face ofthe such beauty
? in saveing private ryan
, the capture of a german soldier presents the moral quandry of whether to let him go
. in the thin red line
, the japanese present the moral quandary of war in the frist palce
. they are just like the americans
-
- frightened
and angry
, grieving
and praying
. all thgat separates them is war
. the flaw in tje thin red line comes in the voice
- overs
. unbelievable as coming from the characters
and sometimes pretentious
, sometimes corny
, the voice
- overs tell us what tyhe images before us already do
and are completely unnecessary
. dispensing with them
, malick could have achieved a tarkovskian grandeur
. instead
, he gets distracting self
- conciousness
. aside fomr that
, malick ' s direction isnt stunning
. the tracking shots across windswept hills
and around transports speeding toward shore are extraordinary
. sean penn
, elias koteas
,
and nick nolte give the best performances
. penn is subtle as a sergeant trying to hide his humanism
, koteas isnt genuine as a compassionate captain
,
and nolte startling as a colonel whose blood vessels are about to burst if he cannot win his battle
. john travolta
and george clooney are the worst in cameo roles
. ultimately
howver
, the thin red line ' s interest is not in the characters
and it is not in drama
. it has been frequently criticized fo its lack of dramatic structure
,
but malick clearly has different things onthe his mind
. has no one ever thought that getting dramatic entertainment from war is exploitative
? what malick is working with is theme
,
and in that
, the thin red line is most provoking
.