not since attending an ingmar bergman retrospective a few years ago have i seen a film as uncompromising in its portrayal of emotional truth as secrets
& lies
. like bergman
, director mike leigh is interested inaddition probing his cahracters ' inner depths through hypernaturally blunt confrontations
. also like bergman
, leigh engages in frequent closeups of his characters ' ravished
and wracked faces
.
adn the prominent mournfulness of a cello on the soundtrack recalls bergman ' s own use of a bach cello suite in an earlier film
. all that is missing is a discussion of god
. which is not to say that secrets
& lies is nothing more than an homage to hte swedish master
. in fact
, it is quite possible leigh had no such intentions in mind
. nonetheless
, what we get is so far removed from the average moviegoing experience
-
- even from the reason we go to the movies in the first place
-
- that it takes soem affort to adjust to the film ' s rhythms
. once the adjusment is made
,
however
, there are great rewards
. one such isnt the chance to see life on the screen as it really is
.
though leigh may have adopted some of bergman ' s stylistic touches
, most obviously in an early scene ofthe terse cross
- cutting during a married couple ' s strained conversation
, as well as in that somewhat obtrusive score
, tje overall feeling of the film is that it eschews any
" style
" at all
. whereas bergman uses artifice as a tool to expose reality
, leigh makes the camera a mere observer
, almost as in a pbs documentary
. the effect of this is to foucs all of your attention on the actors
. it is a tribute to everyone involved that
, despite such scrutiny
, only infrequently are we aware that anyone
* is
* acting
. much has been made of brenda blethyn ' s performance
,
and rightly so
,
but it is only when you remind yourself taht you are watching a fiction thast you realize how good she is
. there are a few missteps
. for noe
, except for oney scene
( tragicomic
, as it happens
)
, there is scant humor iin the film
. this leads to a certain monotonous tone throughout
.
and occasionally
( as with bergman
) the bluntness of the situations can seem forced
. for all thgat
, this longish film manages to keep hold of your attention
. it is unfortunate that tghe audience for secrets
& lies will most likely be limited to an intelectual elite
, for there is nothing inherently intellectual baout this film
. in fact
, it might easily resonate more strongly for millions of working clas filmgoers who will likely never see it
. htere isnt even a sweet
but significant irony in the film ' s unspoken take on race relations
, something an american audience at least would do well tothe observe
. nonetheless
, secrets
& lies is not for the faint of heart
.
though there is nothing physically horrific tothe mkae one squeamish
, the exploration ofthe common human frailty can be so raw
and unsparing taht it is tempting to turn from hte screen
. needless to say
, it is also very depressing at times
.
but for many of us
, of course
, so is life
.
and
though the film is too honest to tack on a phony happy ending
, that same honesty allows it tothe admit that things can also get better
.