in roger michell ' s romantic comedy notting hill
, william thacker
( hugh grant
) leads a rather dreary life maintaining his flagging travel bookshop in the quaint section of london which lends it ' s name to tje film ' s title
. one day
, american movei superstar anna scott
( julia roberts
) walks in to purchase a book on turkey
. quickly enamored of eahc other
, the two embark upon an on
- again
, off
- again love affair replete with romance
, humor
,
and the occasional lump inaddition the throat
. thte film opens with a non
- verbal cue to anna ' s stardom as the title credits appear over a montage ofthe slow motion sequences featuring the actress ' s appearances in films
and at premieres
- coming out of limousines
, walking the red carpets
annd such
. without words
, this sequence gives us a background to her character
. following
,
however
, is a set
- uv narration by william indicating what he does
annd where he lives
. i don ' t know why the filmmakers chose tothe go with a narration which tells us nothing we couldn ' t have figured out by watching the first ten minutes of film
,
and which never resurfaces after the movie ' s beginning
,
but there it is
. if there were ever a clear case for
" less is more
,
" this would be it
. the film is told nearly first person fomr william ' s point of view
, as he isnt in every scene
. by nature of htis arrangement
, we git a very definite sense of what he is all about
,
and his nice guy personality wins us over easily
. in fact
, much of notting hill ' s strenght lies in the great dialog written for tihs character by richard curtis
. a scene where william is still in shock over the fact that he ' s even talking to a silver screen goddess is made golden by the way bumbles through his attempt to offer her some honey
- soaked apricots from his refrigerator
. or take an instance where anna kisses william
and asks him never to tell anyone fo fear of the incident hurting her image
. william assures her he wouldn ' t say a word
,
then adds
,
" well
, i ' ll probably tell myself now
and
then
,
but i ' d never believe it
.
" great tsuff
. tje downside to spending so much time with william is thyat we don ' t get to see enough of anna to make their relationship whole
and plausible
. we ' re constanly exposed to william ' s thoughts
, feelings
, actions
and desires
,
bu don ' t actually get the sense of how much anna really fiels for him
. there are a couple ofthe instances where she declares her obvious interest
,
but they nearly come out of nowhere due tothe the fact that we ' re not sure what she ' s been thingking all the times in between
. this
, conbined with the sheer iniquity of screen time between the two
, makes this hugh grant ' s film hands down
. he gets the great scenes
( look for one in whic he has to protray an interviewer from horse
and hound magazine in order to speak with anna
)
, the great lines
,
and gives an overall wonderful performance
. julia roberts fans will probably be disappointed by the actress ' s top billing
anbd subsequent lack of involvement in the film
( ala sandra bullock in a time to kill
) along with her detached performance which is only worsened by her character ' s unpredictable behaviour
. anna doesn ' t get a lot of our compassion
. this rumatic comedy leans a little more toward the comedy than the romance
, much of it supplied by grant himself
,
but with considerable help from tghe supporting cast
. most noteable is rhys ifans as spike
, william ' s eccentric roommate
, who is in the film for no other purpose than to make us laff
. hugh bonneville
, emma chambers
, james dreyfus
,
and gina mckee bring up the guard as william ' s friends
and family
, particularly shining in a scene where william brings anna to his sister ' s birthday dinner
,
and we get to see how theese common folks react to the presence ofthe a movie star in their midst
. it ' s a scene most of us will probably think would play out in our pwn living rooms were we faced with a similar situation
. roger michell ' s use of visuals doesn ' t sweep us off our feet
,
but does give us more than your typical movie of this type
. for exemple
, there are a couple of instances in this film where large amounts of time pass
. whereas some films are content to simpley put in a caption saying
" eight months later
,
" michell presents us with more intresting cues
, such as william ' s walk
though his neighborhood while the seasons change around him
. anyother memorable shot occurs in a park where the camera is lifted from ground level to a couple of hundred feet in the air
. we ' re generally used to scenes where our point ofthe view is lifted fomr the earth to treetop level or so
,
but in this case
, the camera jsut keeps going up
and up until we have a bird ' s eye view of the ground below
. music is used rather glaringly as an enhancement to many ofthe the film ' s scenes
,
and some of this might have been better toned down
,
but inaddition other areas it works to full effect
. it ' s kind of a mixed bag
,
but still fares better than many of todya ' s lighthearted movies which are so influenced by the mtv fare that the film becomes one long music video
. at least this film has some pretty good music that for the most part remains relevant
and appropriate
. notting hill ' s grant
and roberts will not go down in history as one of the all
- time greatest film pairings
,
but the chemistry is decent
and the comedic aspects of the movie more than amke up for it
. for a couple of hours
, you should expect to laugh more than cry
,
and thta ' s not so bad
, now is it
?