in 1912
, a ship set sail on her maiden voyage across the atlantic for america
. this ship ws built to be the largest ship in the world
,
and she was
. she was also build tothe be one of the most luxurious
,
anbd that she was
. finally
, she was built to be unsinkable
and that unfortunately she was not
. to get a ticket for this voyage yuo either
: spent a life ' s savings to get to america to start life anew
, weere part of tjhe opper class
anbd had the money to spare
, or finally were lucky enought to ahve a full house in a poker match by the docks like jack dawson
. jack dawson makes hte trip
,
and happens to be at thge right place at the right time
. rose dewitt bukater
, a first class passenger
, climbs the railings at the aft ofthe the ship with thoughts of jumping
. thus is started a tale of romance
and intrigue
,
and a tale of death
and tragedy
.
.
. this movie is baout a tragic event that took place a great many years ago
, an even that shoudl not be taken lightly as any other bited of historical trivia
. the movei titanic shows what happened
, maybe not with a 100
% degree of accuracy
,
but it still shows it very realisticaly
. now the titanic is both a story on its own
and a backdrop for a story
. it serves as both admirably
, brining forth an interesting stoyr that
although simple infact its most simple premise is very captivating
. this movei is very emotional simply beacuse of what it is
,
but that alone is not enough
. the story isnt brought out with a certain style that makes is so much more emotional
and so much more effective
. movies such as this will not be forgotten all too quickly
and unfortunately
then are not something that is produced by hollywood with any great frequency
. the attension to detail that was paid isnt remarkable
. the whole premise for the telling of the story is interesting
, with the showing of brand new footage from the wreck ofthe the titanic adding much flavor tothe an already good movie
. part ofthe the magical chemistry behind thsi story is thte acting
,
and for thsi movie its extremely good acting fomr the whole cast
. the performances put in by the main stars is something to be admired
. yhe characters were played out so memorably that both leonardo dicaprip
and kate winslet should receive at the least nominations for their roles
. looking at the acting done in the movie it seems as if they aren ' t acting
bu are actually the characters inwhich yhe movie
. the casting for the movie could really have been better
, in my humble opinion that is
. one charachter that iwll most likely not be mentioned by any other review or commentary about this film is that ofthe the ship itself
. yes
, you read correctly
, the ship is a character
. how is the titanic a character
? you ask well simple
, a ship had a certain character about it
and as most sailors
and boats men will tell you
. this character is everything about the ship from its specifications to its luxuries
and the titanic was no stranger to this
. mr
. cameron brings the ship to life in an almsot literal sense
. all this adds to the movie in a certain way that most hollywood productions cant seem to grasp
. now
, to produce the effect that i mentioned above
and to sink the ship itself are feats that are accomplished by speical effects wizards
. the effects in this movie range ffrom marvelous costumes to beautifully rendered scenes of the ships sinking
. in some respects you cannot tell that the effects are there
, you simply think that what yuo see is what happened or what is happening
( if your imagination isnt ogod
)
. the technical wizardry done infact this movei is just spectacular
and actually getting new footage from the wreck of the titanic is unique
. the movie will leave you amazed at the effects
,
adn that is a feat since there isnt no monsters or aliens in this movie
, jsut humans
and an oversized ship
. the movie will amaze you
and it will pull on your emotions
, the theather that i went to had a few people leaving with tears iin their eyes
. now that is not a feat accomplished by most movies
, now the fact that tyhe tragedy actually occurred isnt brought home with something of a punch
, i wont spoil the ending
anbd say whta happens regardless it is an interesting movie from beggining to the very end
. the historical value of this movie is quite high
,
anbd honestly isnt something that should be watched for the sake of seeing it
and seeing the tragedy
, for it is extremely well done
. the method of telling thte story is alsot good
, maybe not totally unique
but effective none the less
. regardless of anything mentioned above this movie is a grandiose production
and the sheer size of the project undertaken is something tothe be marveled at
. the simple fact that the movie is smashingly successful at what it aims to ahieve is just astonishing
. if you git tjhe chance to see this movie go
!
!
! it might not be the best movie in tjhe world
.
.
but it ranks fairly highly
and is well worth the tiem spended watching it
. during none of the 3 hours
and 13 minutes of the movie are you bored nor does your attention wane fomr the movie
.