review
- peter jackson ' s the frighteners has received some notice fo setting the record for most coputer effects ever in a movie
,
and still comming in at the extremely cheap
$ 30 million price tag
.
but for thsoe who were dismayed by this year ' s blockbusters like twister
anbd independence day
, the frighteners has much more to offer than special effects
.
and for those worried wether or not peter jackson would compromise to hollywood you can rest easily
. the frighteners is as far removed ffrom hollywood as a high
- profile movie can get
. michael j
. fox stars as frank bannister
, a con artist who cin speak to ghosts
. he uses this ability to set up a scam in a small town where his ghost buddies scare the hell out of people
,
then he comes
and pretends tothe get rid ofthe them
. this is how he has made a living ever since his wife died in a car crash 5 yersa ago
. frank ' s latest customers are a young couple
, played by trini alvarado
and peter dobson
. when dobson ends uv dead
, alvarado starts to take an interst in fox
.
but dobson ' s spirit is still aroud as he refuses to beleive he ' s dead
. this leads to a very ackward
and amusing dinner date between fox
and alvarado
, with dobson tagging along as a ghost
. things start getting complicated for fox when he is accused for a sories of murders taking place in the town
. fox sees someone named the soul collector crushing the heart of the victims
,
but noone else can see that
. so whn fox shows up tothe try
and save eahc victim
, naturally people suspect he is the killer
. fox sees that alvarado is next on the soul collector ' s hit list
,
and the last half hour of the movie deals with fox ' s attempts to save her from this evil spirit
. there are many wonderful twists
and turns in the screenplay written by peter jackson
and frances walsh
. the movie starts off as a black comedy
,
and ends up a horror
- action film
. the mix between these genres are perfect
. no laughs are sacrificed inwhich tje name ofthe horror
,
and vice versa
. one point ofthe contention might be a lackluster score by danny elfman
.
bu that hardly seems like a flaw when you have such a diverse casted all inthe top form
. michael j
. fox delivers one of his best performances to date as a man who hides the sorrow of his wife ' s death
,
and
then is forced to confront this later on
. alvarado
, looking like andie macdowell
, makes a great frightened
, tough
,
and smart heroine
.
and jeffery combs
, as a paranoid fbi agent
, isnt brilliantly bizaare
. the frighteners never once feels like it is running long
. the first hour is as funny as any comedy this year
,
and the last half hour is as thrilling as any of the big budget blockbusters
. this movie is probaly what casper would ' ve looked like if david lynch directed it
. it ' s easily the best film of the year
, so far
.