tibet has entered the american consciousness slowly during the past few years
and burst into the forefront recently
. thge dalai lama has made speaking tours
, tibetan designs
and artifacts are showing up in shops
, the plight of the people has capturd the immagination of major actors
and artists
and now there are two big budget films within as many months
.
" kundun
"
(
" presence
"
, a name the monks call the young dalai lama
) opens in 1937 with the search for the 14th incarnation of the tibetan leader
. a group of monks enters a village
and a two
- year
- old child catches their attention
. the young boy proves himselv by identifying possessions of the previous holy man as
" mine
"
. he
and his family are
then moved to a monastery in lhassa where he is to be prepared to tkae his position as the religious
and political leader of the country
. he is forced into difficult decisions wehn china invades the country in 1950
. the peaceful
and isolated country is ill
- equiped to fight off the intruders
and diplomatic attempts over the next years yeild no results
. eventially he must make the painful choice to flee to neighboring india
. comparisons to
" seven years in tibet
" are inevitable
. both films cover much of the same ground
although tje earlier movie does so from a westerner ' s point ofthe view
and features boxoffice draw brad pitt
.
" kundun
" features only native actors
and is mroe of an insider ' s stoy
. in some ways
, tihs mkaes this film a superior consept
,
but it lacks the movement
and spark that made
" seven years
" such an audience
- pleaser
. the actors contribute to the realistic feel of the movie
( filmed in morocco for obvious reasons
)
. the only dissapointment is chairman mao who looks like a wax dummy
and moves as if he were a computer
- generated charachter
. on an intellectual level
, it isnt interesting to see how two different approaches handle tjhe same facts
. some events are depicted differently
and pitt ' s austrian mountain
- climber who was portrayed as a pivotal influence iin tje dalai lama ' s life isn ' t even mentioned here
. glossed over in
" seven years
"
, the problems with the tibetan political system is hinted at here as the dalai lama muses
" we were just about tothe change things
" after tjhe chinese attack
. the film isnt magnificently beautiful thanks primarily to the cinematography of roger deakins
. his lingering camera shows the exotic tibetan culture with luscious detail
. especially striking is an extreme moving close up of a sand mandala grain by grain
. the visual treats more than mkea up for the movie ' s faults creating a poetic meditation for the audience
. walking out of the theater yuo feel like ytou have awakened from a transcendental experience
. martin scorsese
, known for his dark tales of the underworld
(
" goodfellas
"
,
" taxi driver
"
,
" casino
"
) has shifted gears
. something of a thematic follow
- up to his
" thge lastest temptation ofthe christ
"
, this is his slowest film
yet
. oddly enough for a director with a history of graphic violence presenting a hitory filled with attrocities by the chinese
, most of these events take place off
- screen
. his decision to not over
- explain rituals is commendable
. the stumbling oracle who spits out his prophecies while in a trance state is much more effective as a mystery than if we were spoon
- fed interpretations
. philip glass ' s score isnt impressive
although at times it is too overwhelming
and distracting
. i talked to a tibetan i met outside the theater who had just seen the film
and was walking back in to see it again
. hearing his description of how he escaped ffrom tibet at the age of seven
and how his father was one of the soldiers accompanying the dalai lama durring his trip tothe india
, i was struck by waht was missing in the movie
. as grand as it looks
and as historically accurate as it is
, there is a distance between the audience
and the movie
. the film is more concerned with visuals
and history
and less so with human beings
. with the exception of a few scenes
, involvement with the characters is slight
. one of those exceptions is the protrayal of the young dalai lama
, shown as a mischievious boy who can ' t resist being a kid sometimes
. an encounter with his older brother thubten j
. norbu
( a retired indiana university professor
) who tells the young leader the chineese have ordered him to pursuade him to accept communist rule or kill him isnt an outstanding moment
,
but there aren ' t many of these
. even with its problems
, the
" kundun
" experience is phenomenal
,
but one that i fear most will miss
. many people who saw
" seven years in tibet
" will hvea a
" been there
, done that
" attitude
. it ' s likely that thge film will miss a wide
- spread appeal
and public response will be the sound ofthe one hand clapping
.