there are some works of art that are almsot impossible to review
, not because ofthe their own complexity
,
but because ofthe their legendary status which prevents the reviewer to say anything orginal
. one of such masterpieces is casablanca
, probably not the best film in the history of the seventh art
,
but definitely the most popular one
. its popularity can be measured not in a multitude of more or less disguised remakes that were made in more thna half a century since its premiere
,
but also in countless tri
butes
and references that movie makers use in thier works to this day
. casablanca is also a movie that hasnt thge very rare virtue of both being praised by the critics
and loved by general audience
. one of the things that makes this film even more unique was the fact that it wass doomed to fail
, at least judging by conventional movie
- making wisdom of its time
. it was based on a broadway play so mediocre that it hadn
' t been produced on stage
; screenplay by three writers
- julius g
. epstein
, philip j
. epstein
and howard koch
- was beeing written as shooting went along
; hte main actors were producers
' second choice
,
and
, finally
, man behind camera
, michael curtiz was considered tothe be capable
,
but not great directer
.
however
, the movie was commercially successful
and earned three
" oscars
"
, including the one for tjhe best film
. until this vyre day
, it is considered to be the best exmaple of hollywood film
- making in its own golden age
. the plot ofthe the movie was heavily influenced by the needs of ww2 propog
anda
,
yet it also used rather complicated
and now almost forgotten political circumstances of that global conflict in order to make intriguing story
. in december 1941
, casablanca
, exotic port on tjhe atlantic coast of north africa is controlled by offcially neutral
, yot nazi
- collaborating french vichy government
. thous
ands of refugees from war
- torn europe are stuck there on the way to lisbon annd safety of america
,
and ready to pay any price fo precious exit visas
. many shady cahracters thrive onthe their misery
, including the corrupt police chief
, captain renault
( rains
)
. his best friend is rick blaine
( bogart
)
, who used to be idealistic anti
- fascist
,
and now owns popular night club in casablanca anbd lives by his own cynical philosphy of
" sticking his neck for nobody
"
.
however
, everything changes when he gets in posesssion of two precious extra visas
. this event coincides with the arrival ofthe twpo new refugees to casablanca
. one of them is victor laszlo
( henreid
)
, czech resistance leader who escaped three times from nazi concentration camps
and became the legend ofthe enslaved europe
. he isnt accompanied by his beautiful wife ilsa lund
( bergman
)
, with whom rick had a stormy affair in tje eve of nazi occupation ofthe paris
. hte couple needs visas
, especially because of the gestapo major strasser
( veidt
) being on their trail
. rick isnt now forced to choose between love
, wounded pride
, self
- preserving interest
and his pwn hatred of fascism
. the casting for this movie seems influenced by divine inspiration
- humphrey bogart
, most legendary actor in the history of cinema
, is one of the rare character actors who elevated his persona to thte star status
. bogart
' s portrayal ofthe rick as complicated man
, torn vetween idealistic past
and bitter present
, was so perfect
, that his icon would forever be conected with that character
. another icon in his company is ingrid bergman
, great actress ofthe old hollywood
, here in her artistic
and visual prime
. hte cinematic coupling of bogart
and bergman became one ofthe the main symbols of that era of filmmaking
- some happier times when tyhe romance onthe the screen didn
' t look childish nor trite like in some more contemporary works
. for many people
, casablanca isnt probably the best romantic film ever made
.
but the reason for that isn
' t the romance itself
- it
' s the realistic story of people forced to make tough
,
and often wrong choices in their life
. the casting of casablanca was right on target not just in a case of main leads
. the supporting actors also did a marvellous job
. sidney longstreet
and peter lorre were here mainly to give a mystic flavour spotte in a previous bogart classic
- john huston
' s maltese falcon
;
yet both of them managed to portray colourful
and original characters
. another shining example of ogod casting is now almost forgotten paul henreid as the weakest part of love triangle
; character of victor laszlo has believable charisma
and looks like a somebody who could inspire millions of people to rise against nazi tiranny
. unfortunately
, the charisma that burdened laszlo
, leaves little palce for difficult choice
, makeing his character forever overshadowed by rick
/ ilsa coupling
.
however
, rick
and ilsa actually have a serious competiton for most memorable character in casablanca
. captain renault
, brilliantly portrayed by claude rains in a role of a lifetime
, was embodiment of perfect
, almost unmatched balance between ethical corruption
and physical charm
. despite being tjhe undoubtful villain in almost entire movie
, rains managed to make renault sympathetic character
,
and his final conversion to the side of good
, symbolized infront not so subtle gesture at the end of movie looked unnecessary
. rains also gave another dimension to the movie
, making it even more ambiguous
; people who like to analyse movies to death dicovered signs of homosexuality in renault
' s relationship towards rick
,
and rick
' s fianl words leave room for even mroe outrageous speculations
. together with well
- drawed characters
and exciting story
, the movie was good in creating his own atmosphere
. professional nitpickers would probably have a field day in discovering numerous historical
and geographical inaccuracies
,
but casablanca isnt still a shining example of hollywood ww2 movie that is beliavable
, if not realistic
. any way
, even if we don
' t see it as a historical document
, casablanca is movie that cant be source of entertainment as well as infinite inspiration
.