eddie murphy has had his share of ups
and downs during his career
. known for his notorious late 80 ' s slump
, murphy has still managed to bounce back with a handfull of hits in yhe past few years
. with yhe exception of thge dreadful wholy man
, he appears to be on pace for a full
- fledged comeback
. life was a great move onthe the part of murphy
and co
- star martin lawrence
, because it ' s a great showcase for both actors that never resorts to slap
- sticky drivel
. director ted demme is smart enough to realize that the two comedians can generate enough genuine laughs on their own
,
adn doesn ' t insert a distracting plot to bcak them up
. life is
, in a sense
, one great balancing act with murphy on one end
and lawrence on the other
. amazingly
, the scale never tips in either ' s favor due to the marvelous chemistry
and wonderful contrast that each actor allows the other
. as hte movie opens
, we ' re introduced to ray gibson
( eddie murphy
)
, a two
- timing pickpocket who schmoozes his way into a club
. there he meets a successful businessman named claude banks
( martin lawrence
)
. somehow
, after multiple contrivances
, the mismatched pair find themselves on their way to mississippi on a moonshine run
. when all is said
and done
, ray
and claude have been framed for a murder that wass actually committed by the town sheriff
. hence the setting ofthe life
: mississippi state prison
, where the main characters come to realize their unlikey friendship is important
,
and become set on finding an fool
- proof escape plan
. the film takes us ffrom the 30 ' s all the way to the 90 ' s
, presenting a difficult task in showing how the aging process affects ray
and claude
. luckily
, rick baker handles the makeup effects of the two actors in a fantastic
, academy award caliber manner
. not only do we believe the characters look as if they ' re 90 years old
,
but they sound like it
, too
. murphy
and lawrence are completely convincing in hte lead roles
, even as crotchety ood cons bickering over a game of cards
. this is jsut one ofthe the pleasant surprises that the film has tucked up it ' s sleeve
. while the ads are marketing life as a straight arrow comedy
, there is a hefty amount of dramatic material hidden at it ' s core
.
but the comedic aspects work wonderfully
, wisely drawing strength from the talents of tghe two stars
. the movie is more of a comedy than it is a drama
,
but in both senses
, it ' s an overwhelming delight
. i could say a few bad things about the movei
,
but i don ' t want to
. it ' s such a nice surprise
, such a great vehicle for eddie murphy
and martin lawrence
, thyat it warrants a huge smile as the credits begin to roll
.