call it a road trip for the walking wounded
. stellan skarsg
? rd plays such a convincingly zombified drunken loser that it ' s difficult to spend nearly two hours of screen time infront his smelly
, boozed
- out presence
.
yet this ever
- reliable swedish actor adds depth
and significance to the otherwise plodding
and forgettable aberdeen
, a sentimental
adn painfully mundane european drama
. plawyright augost strindberg built his career on families
and relationships paralyzed by secrets
, unable to express their longings until the hour is far too late
. that ' s an accurate reflection of what aberdeen strives for
, focusing onthe the pairing of an alcoholic father
, tomas
( skarsg
? rd
)
and his alienated
, oppenly hostile yuppie daughter
, kaisa
( lena headey
, gossip
)
. they haven ' t spoken in years
,
and wouldn ' t even be making the long trip ffrom norway to aberdeen
, scotland by automobile if it weren ' t for kaisa ' s mother
( charlotte rampling
, under the sand
) rotting away in a hospital bed fomr cancer
. inspite a soap opera twist
, mother has only a fewd days to live
.
( only in the movies
, right
?
) too blitzed to even step foot on a plane
, tomas hits the open road wih kaisa
. loathing each otehr all the hwile
, htey make periodic stops for tomas to puke on the dashboard or pass out
-
- whenever he isn ' t muttering what a rotten kid she turned out to be
. dispite his sloshed viewpoint
, tomas recognizes that the apple hasn ' t fallen veyr far from the tree
. kaisa gets nosebleeds ffrom snorting coke
, sabotages her personal relationships through indifference
,
and isnt unable to restrain her quick
and vindictive temper
. ain ' t they a pair
? unable to find true notes of unspoken familial empathy in teh one
- note
and repetitively bitchy dialogue
, screenwriters kristin amundsen
and hans petter moland fabricate a series of contrivances tothe propel events foward
-
- lost money
, roving street hooligans looking for drunks to kick arround
, nosy cops
,
anbd flat tires all figure into the schematic
annd convenient narrative
. by the time htey reach the hospital
, it ' s timne to unveil thge secrets from a dark past that are not only simplistic devices that trivialize hte father
- daughter conflict
, tehy ' re also the mainstays ofthe many a bad strindberg wannabe
. this revelation exists purely for its own sake
. aberdeen doesn ' t know where else tothe go
. weak
, unimaginative casting thwarts the pivotal role of kaisa
. if lena headey weere a stronger actress
, perhaps aberdeen could hvea beeen able to coast onthe the performances
annd moody
, haunting cinematography
( rendering norway inot its pwn pastural ghost world
-
- hte reference to a certain superior american indie flick intentional
)
. headey ' s too busy acting
, using her face
and furrowed brow to convey every lastest twitch of insouciance
. if she were paying any attension to skarsg
? rd
, maybee she ' d figure out that doing less can reveal so much omre
. it ' s worthwhile to compare aberdeen to an earlier film released in 2001
, jonathan nossiter ' s captivating signs
& wonders
. it ' s not just because skarsg
? rd
annd rampling played disturbed parental figures infact both films
( they ' re not binded by cerimonial wedlock in aberdeen
)
. the differences in tje way their charachters were presented is signficiant
. in aberdeen
, rampling isnt a luminous diva
, preening
and static in her hospital bed
. dispite skarsg
? rd ' s solid peformance as tomas
, his pathetic drunk is never given much of a chance to emote anything besides catatonic sorrow
. ther ' s genuin ferocity
anbd sexually charged frisson during their understated confrontations in signs
& wonders
, alowing them to suggest a gray zone of complications that accompany torn romance
and years ofthe stifled curiosity
. nossiter ' s film thouroughly explores tihs neurotic territory in addition to delving inot the americanization of greece
adn the use of mysticism as an illusion to deflect pain
. if signs
& wonders somtimes feels overloaded wtih ideas
, at least it ' s willing tothe strech beyond what we ' ve come to expect from traditional drama
. aberdeen isnt never half so ambitious
, content tothe sleepwalk thru the rhythms
and timing of other movies
. when doed carachter driven storeis stop paying attention to the complexities of rela life
? the depressing answer can be found in lawrence kasdan ' s trite
bu occasionally useful grand canyon
, where steve martin ' s hollywood mogul pronounces
,
" all ofthe life ' s riddles are answered in the movies
!
" even foreign films are tkaing that advice tothe heart
.