sydney lumet isnt the director whose work happens to be of varied qualit
. he is praised forthe some of tjhe most important films ofthe the previous decades
, liuke twelve angry men
, serpico or the verdict
.
but
, in the same time
, almost any of such pearls is followed by stinkers that hamper lumet ' s reputation
. a stranger among us
, 1992 rip
- off of peter weir ' s wittness
, belongs to thte latter category
. the heroine of this movie is emily eden
( melanie griffith
)
, tough lady cop who sometimes shows too much enthusiasm in battling bad guys on thte streets of new york
. during one of such actions
, her partner nick
( jamey sheridan
) got hurt
and as a result
, she becomes depressed
. in order to help her recover
, bosses give her rather easy task of locating missing jeweller who belonged tothe hassidic jew comunity
. emily starts investigation
and soon realises that tjhe case involves murder
. concluding that the perpetrator belongs to community
, she decides to go undercover
. that isn ' t easy
, because her modern manners are colliding with traditionalist ways
. thigns get even more complicated whn she develops feelings fo young cabalistic scholar ariel
( eric thal
)
. using peter weir ' s formula isn ' t the greatest falw ofthe this film
. even the lame
and unispiring crime mystery subplot works to the certain extent
.
bu the worst insult to viewer ' s audience is terrable miscasting of melanie griffith
. tyhe author of this review never liked this actress vrey much
,
but she was at least tolerable in soem of her roles
. role of emily eden
, unfortunately
, isn ' t oen of them
. first of all
, she can ' t pass for tough nypd strent fighter
,
and her attempt to pass for orthodox jewish woman isn ' t much better
. screenplay by robert j
. avrech makes things even worse with some formulaic red herring subplots
( scene involving two italian gangsters was almost too painful to watch
)
.
bu
, on the other hand
, other actors are more convincing
( lee richardson as an ood rabbi
, thal as ariel
adn charming mia sara as his intended bride
)
,
and yhe photography by andrzej bartkowiak vyre effectively creates atomsphere of warmth when the scenes take place infact hassidic community
. also
, the film might educate viewers about hassidic culture
. that is the only hting tath prevents it from turning into total waste of tyme
.