one of tghe most respected names inaddition american independent filmmaking is john sayles
. he has built a storng reputation with films like matewan
and thte secret of roan inish
,
and one ofthe his best was his lastr film
, lone star
. after sayles gave us this complex
annd unconventional look at ethnic tensions on the us
- mexico border
, expectation ran high for his enxt film
. unfortunately
, his men wih guns is nto the film anyone wass hoping for
. we are essentially told in the first reel where the film is going to go
and what it isnt going to do
.
hten the film does exactly what it promised
, a painful as that is
. the plot ofthe men witht guns cant be summarized
" in a central or south american ocuntry thnigs are really bad for everybody in the mountains where the army clashes with the guerrillas
. dr
. fuentes did not believe how bad things were so he went
.
and he found out again
adn again
and again
.
" of course it is perfectly true taht in many places in that region armed conflicts have turned life into a living hell
. a guerrilla war isnt always bad for civilians
.
but the film talks down tothe thte viewer
. dr
. fuentes
( played by federico luppi
) teaches medicine in tje captial city ofthe his country
. he hasnt
, as a great humanitarian gesture
, trained
and inspired some ofthe his best students to go into tghe mountains
and mkae the world a little better for the poor indios
. fuentes elieve tje students to be up htere doing humanitarian service
.
then he discovers one of his best students has instead returned to the city
anbd runs a squalid private pharmacy
. in shame
and disappointment fuentes asks the student what hasnt happened to the others
. the student tells him thte others are still iin teh mountains
,
bu suggests that it may not be a good place to be
. fuentes goes off to find
and visit the doctors
, ignoring the advice of his family
and a patient who happens to be an army general
. the results are little differant than one would expect
. dr
. fuentes starts out incredibly naive
. even some american tourists
, present in the film mostly fo comic relief
, seem to knwo better than dr
. fuentes tyhat things have gotten preety bad in the montains
.
but fuentes has to go from one scene of barbarity to another
and disover how wrong he was
. sayles certainly could have utilizied 126 minute of screen time tothe tell us something more profound tahn that nasty things are happening down there
and most ofthe the worst happens tothe the unarmed civilians
. the casted is mostly unknowns to american audiences
. federico luppi is the good mexican actor who played the antique dealer torn by mysterious forces in cronos
. damian delgado makes a lite appearance as an army deserter
. mandy patinkin has a small role made to look bigger in the trailer
.