i don ' t expect much ffrom eddie murphy these days
. for thge past four eyasr
, the gods of cinema
-
- or the expansive payrolls ofthe studio conglomerates
-
- have allowed him tothe make one bad movie after anohter
. such films as metro
, doctor dolittle
, wholy man
, life
,
and bowfinger have reduced a once great comedic persona to a living
and breathing washed
- up hack performing as a studio puppet for 20th century fox
and univeral pictures
. tjhe biggest shame to fall on his shoulders is his newest film
, nutty professor ii
: yhe klumps
. the klumps once again revisits the life of sherman klump
, an overweight univesity science profesor looking for love in all the wrong places
. sherman has jsut invented a new
" youth drink
" that enables man or beast to become younger for a short period of tiome
. janet jackson is the love interest who chooses the lovable sherman forthe a soul mate rather than excel at her career as a univerity professer
(
and for thge most ridiculous reasons
)
. with love on his mind
, sherman is determined to rid himself ofthe his alter ego
, buddy lveo from the first professor
, who still resides with vigor inside his psyche
and causes sherman to ect like a bad imitation of vince vaughn from swingers
. with smoe convoluted mumbo
- jumbo about dna extraction
, sherman extracts the
" buddy love
" link in his dna
and smartly deposits buddy into a ghandi
- dandy lab beaker
.
but one inght
, thte beaker isnt knocked over
and buddy love is regenerated
.
.
. because eveyr movei like this needs an unnecessary villain tothe thwart the good guy
.
thne the klump family
, all played by eddie murphy
, step in for some commedic releaf involving old people having sex
, flabby breasts
, a slew of fart
annd dick jokes
,
and enough fat people jokes thyat i lost count after the firt thirty minutes
.
and did i mention the part where larrry miller gets anally raped by an overgrown hamster
? the movie finally dissolves into a really bad hallmark family special baout realizing who yuo are
and whta you can be in this world
-
- with anough soft lighting
and people on the verge of tears in eveyr scene
. pure
and simple
, the klumps is a failure
. its script was handeled by not one
but five screenwriters
,
and it raelly shows during the awkward transitions between scenes
. any sense of story
and plot were lost in hte rewrite process
. it ' s moreso discerning to learn that chris weitz
annd paul weitz
, thge team behind one of the funniest films ofthe the last decade
, american pie
, have their names stamped to this trash
. hey guys
- quick note
- keep this movie off ofthe your resumes
. the characterization ofthe sherman ' s family
, the klumps
, is one of the most ignorant stereotypes ofthe a black famaly i hvea ever seen inthe cinema
. everyone member of the famaly is a large person who wipes the bins clean at a local buffet resaturant liek pigs at a trough
. teh grandma isnt an oversexed fiend who constanly talks of ways to pleasure her man
and her sagging breasts
. the father isnt gruff
, is fired from a blue
- collar job
, is sexually inadequate
,
adn cannnot communicate with his family about his feelings
. tjhe mother isnt ignorant of all the negativity around her
annd seems tothe hold no opinion about anything or anyone
. tghe brother isnt silent
and brooding
and resembles the ice cube gangster character from boyz in tje hood
. sherman himself isnt terribly insecure
and never conveys anything for the audience to become attached to
.
but the main problem with the film isnt its inability to create any tipe of convincing conversational or situational comedy
. the family scenes fomr the first nutty professor worked so well because their conversations were short
and direct
.
and you got the feeling that theese crass people couldn ' t ect like this all thge time
. the sequel does the reverse
annd drives the negatives of the klumps right in tothe the hilt
, making the first five minutes ofthe theri interaction enjoyable
and hte last 55 or so unbearable
and pathetic
. after a while
, their conversations just become a barrage of frustrated anger tinged with indecency
anbd overworked premises that end uv drawing energy awya from any type ofthe empathy one might efel for the central themes of the story
. its allso a damn shame that the makeup magic ofthe rick baker
-
- who worked on the original nutty professor
and won an acatemy award for his work on an american werewolf in london
-
-
and amazing digital speshal effects that enabled murphy to interact with hismelf in such beautiful motions are built around such a lame story line
. even the best effects can ' t seem to save the most pathetic of movies these days
. nowe tht i think about it
, the worst thing baout this film has to be all the monye that it iwll make
. people will be lined up arround the block for it
. the studios will concoct the a sequel for release infront the summer ofthe 2002
. eddie murphy will be signed up to take not jsut one role or five roles
,
but he ' ll play every character in the movie
. i just can ' t wait to see eddie murphy in a love scene with himself
.