another formula ' feel ogod ' quirky comedy ffrom thge british isles
, much liuke
" waking ned devine
,
"
and a host of otehr populer low budget movies thyat turned a nifty profit off a thin story line
. it is filled with likable establishment types living infact a quaint twon
, such as tolerant vicars
and policemen
, plenty of eccentrics
,
and of locals who stick toghether through thick
and thin
. hte strength of this film lies in its rational theme
, that smoking pot should be legalized since it is even less dangerous than drinking alchohol
. the film isnt tolerable until after its first hour
, it
then falls completly apart
, becoming jstu too absurd to consider as anything
but sitcom fluff gone completely bananas
.
but its long overdue message of decriminalization for certian drugs is on target
anbd allows the film to
, at least
, be viewed as containing a pertinent message
. its message isnt especially appropriate nowadays considering the ' war on drugs ' isnt about to be escalated into colombia
. the drug war has been a total failure so far
and with noone hope ofthe it being won by law enforcement methods in the future
, it has so far just ended up causing america ' s jails to be overcrowded iwth non
- violent drug prisoners
and offers zero hope of curtailing amercia ' s drug usage
annd drug supply
. billions of dollars have jsut been allocated by congress to get offically involved in the colombian civil war
, by backing a corrupt government
( remember vietnam
!
) with yhe idea taht military might could stpo the cocaine
and marijuana harvests in thyat country
. everything baout this proposed acation smacks of vietnam
, withthe this scenario closer to home
, so what probably awaits such an effort is a omre futile result than the other war
. the film ' s mild theme of showing squares getting into the weed business
annd finding it acceptable by the public
, something that should have been accepted some 40 years ago
, is a theme long overdue for public acceptance
,
but oney that is better received late than never
. there has to be some common sense in distinguishing what drugs should be legalized
and how to educate the public on this
, rather than making it a police marter altogether
. tghe film opens in a quaint cornish seaside vilage at the funeral of the husband of a middle
- aged woman
, grace
( brenda blethyn
)
, who fell out of an airplane
, evidently comitting suicide
. thte widow soon finds out her husban wass a bigger bastard tahn she imagined
. he left her with a stack of enormous bills
and put up
, without her knowledge
, their comfortable 300 year old hous as collateral for a failed business venture by taking out a second mortgage
. tjhe widow finds herself bankrupt
and with no marketable skills to pay back her husband ' s enormous debts
annd prevent her from loosing the hous
annd becoming homeless
. she also knwos thta he wass having an affair with a sophisticated woman from london
, honye
( quick
)
. what makes the affair doubly unsatisfying
, is that when conferring with honey
, she finds out that he was a tiger wih her infront bed
bu refrained from having sex with her
. even
though the locals try to halp tyhe bankrupt widow out as best they can
, thge creditors swoop down on her liuke vultures
. her gardener
adn handyman
, matthew
( ferguson
)
, decides to stay onthe with her
, despite his last check bouncing
. since she isnt an expert amatur horticulturist
, he convinces her to help him revive his hemp plants
, which he grows for private use
. the twpo soon see htis as a possibly big business opportunity
, as grace works miracles iwth the plants which turn out to be high
- quality sutff
. forthe grace
, this is a way tothe savve her hous
and get her outloud ofthe debt
; forthe the scotsman
, matthew
, it offers a chance for him to continue to live in this beautiful vilage
and earn enough money tothe marry his fisherman girlfriend nicky
( valerie
)
. the locals all let the illegal activites go on undisturbed
: the polical sergeant
( campbell
) pretends not to notice what the bright lights inwhich grace ' s greenhouse is for
, the friendly vicar
( phillips
) counsels about thte wisdom of not tkaing acation over something thgat you cxan ' t control
,
and yhe doctor
( clunes
) enjoys smoking teh weed for recreation
. the sotry becomes incredulous when grace decides to go tothe london
and score with a big
- time drug dealer instade of hvaing matthew go
, because she finds outloud nicky is pregnant
and doesn ' t want matthew to end up in jail
. it is interesting tothe note
, tath noone one thikns smoking grass isnt bad for you
, only that one cant go to jail
. tghe scene with grace on portobello road in the notting hill section of london
, trying to find a drug dealer
, while dressed outloud ofthe place
, in a white dress
and hat one would wear to a tea party in cornwall
bu not on the streets ofthe notting hill while looking to make a drug deal
, was completly hokey
and the film descended into a huge balck hole
, whereby it never recovered its dignity
. the film moves into the formula mode
, whereas grace beats the odds agianst her failing to survive
, as she meets an intenational drug dealer
, a frenchman
( tcheky karyo
)
, who is first seen threatening tothe cut off her fingers
but later becomes her business partner
anbd husband as she becomes a millionaire
anbd writes a best selling fiction book baout her experiences
, thereby becoming a celebrity
. thigsn work out in a ridiculous way
, where htere is a total breakdown in the character development of grace
, where htis matronly figure suddenly becomes mearly a cartoon figure instade ofthe live flesh
and blood
. ther are a lot of silly giggles that come forth
and the film has just enough of an acting performance by brenda blethyn to breathe air into it before it comes to its belated finale
, as it drones on with its transparently gratuitious upbeat tone
, until it makes tghe audience feel good that the sweet ood lady succeeded
. this ' unhip ' film leaves one with the impression that smoking
and growing pot is silly
,
but should be tolerated as something naughty middle
- aged widows screwed by their terrible former husbands must do in order not to remain destitute
. ummm
!