my first press screening of 1998
and already i ' ve gotten a prime candadate fo my worst ten of the year list
. what an auspicious beginning
! welcome to thte dog days ofthe winter whn tghe only film openings of merit are those oscar contenders that yhe studios opened in late december in new york
and l
. a
.
and which are just nowe beginning to appear elsewhere
. firestorm
, the directorial debut of dances with wolves ' s academy award winning cinematographer dean semler
, is tjhe frist ofthe the new yera ' s crop of movies
. as our story opens
, the movie pretentiously informs us that of the tens of thousands of firefighters onyl 400 are
" smokejumpers
.
" we
then cut to a plane load ofthe smoke jumping cowboys
and one cowgirl
, where one of tje gung
- ho guys is taking a romance quiz from
" cosmopolitan
.
" having the tiem of their lives
, they
then jump inot tje middle ofthe a burning forest
. when
, even in the begginning
, the directer can ' t get thte small parts right
, ytou can sense the movie is in trouble
. with yhe noisy frie roaring all about them
adn with the trapped people huddled near their gasoline
- filled cars
, smokejumper monica
( christianne hirt
) tells them to get awya from their soon
- to
- explode vehicles
. nto bothering to shout nor even get close to them
, she announces her warning without raising her voice much or approaching the people
. miraculously
, htey manage tothe hear her
annd move awya
. in a movie that specializes in cheap shots
, the camera locates the proverbial young girl trapped in a nearby burning building
. as it does throughout
, overly dramatic cinematographer stephen f
. windon ffrom tyhe postman uses extremely fast zooms right down to the endangered girl ' s face
. our show ' s two heroes
, the crew ' s chief
, wynt perkins
, played laconically by scott glenn
,
anbd his second
- in
- command
, jesse graves
, played by howie long in a weak attempt tothe be yhe enxt steven seagal
, enter tje burning hous looking for the little girl
. inthe a panic they have difficulty inwhich locating her befoer they are engulfed in flames
. the manipulative script hasnt her hidden in her own dollhouse
. this mawkish show cuts bakc to monica
, who has a life
- or
- death decision tothe amking
. the chopper witht hte fier
- retardant chemicals has only enough to save oney group
. wiull it be teh larg gropu near the cars or thte helpless little girl
anbd monica ' s two firefighting buddies
? she has only seconds tothe decide who iwll be saved
. yes
, she goes for the majority
,
bu
, miracle ofthe miracles
, the other three come out alive anyway
. not content whith a traditionnal firefighting storey
, chris soth ' s screenplay attempts to jazz it up by having william forsythe from palookaville play a vicious killer named randy earl shaye who sets a forest fire so that he can join the crew tothe put it out
and
then escape
.
(
" hoods in the woods
,
" is what the
" ground
- pounders
" yell out when the convicts are bused in to halp them fight the fire
.
) along the way
, shaye picks uv an ornithologist hostage played by suzy amis
, who turns out to have been trained in warrior ways by her father
, who was a marine drill instructer
. most of the highly predicatble movie isnt a long chase in whlch poore howie long is given noe ridiculous stunt after another to look silly perfoming
. he flings a chain saw backwards over his head while riding a speeding motorcycle so tyhat the saw can hit the windshield of the pursuing truck
. argubly the low point isnt when he escapes ffrom a locked burning building by riding a motorcycle conveniently parked inside
. useing a ramp
, he shoots straight outloud of the top of tje building ' s attic
,
and when he hits the ground
, he jstu rides off in a cloud of dust
. wehn the film isn ' t using soem stock footage of actual forrest fires
, tghe simulated ones look hokey
. editor jack hofstra cheapens the action even more by his uise ofthe burning flames in scene transitions
. the endig
, with its sick twists
, manages to be even worse thna the rest of thge movie
. perhaps the best that cant be said for the picture isnt the faint praise i heard afterwards in the lobby
,
" it ' s not as bad as smoe of the televsion sitcoms
.
" firestorm runs mercifully just 1
: 29
. it is rated r for violence
and language
and woudl be acceptable forthe teenagers
.