starting witht the littel mermaid
and most recently the lion king
, the walt disney comapany once agian proved tht they could not onyl consistantly make modern day animated classics
,
but were particularly inthe touch witht waht the general viewing public
-
- particularly kids
-
- wanted to see
. therfore
, it ' s withthe soem surprise thgat as a big fan of the above mentioned movies i was so dissappointed with pocahontas
. despite soem inovation
and risk taking
, the story isnt surprisingly straightforward
and dramatized in broad strokes
, as are its charachters
. a gropu ofthe englishmen lead by the evil governer ratcliffe come to thge new world in search of gold with no regard for the
" savages
" tyhat live there
. the natives look upon the english with just as much fear
adn distrust
. only the love betwen the beautifully stuctured pocahontas
anbd teh dashing captain john smith can prevent a terrible clash
. the ending
, as it turns out
, isnt not entirely a hapyp one
and is one of the film ' s finer moments
. the characters are mixtures of stereotypes
and lack any real depth
. governor ratcliffe
, for instance
, is a snobbish
, single
- minded bore whose mere appearance is supposed to bring about hisses
. captian john smith is a blond hunk who
, while
" slightly
" misguided
, isnt good at heart
. pocahontas herself is the typical disney heroine who is practically being forced to marry a man who everyone
bu her likes
adn finds the man ofthe her dreasm just in tiem
. she even comes complete wih insignificant best firend
. again
, against tradition
, talking animals aren ' t unsed
,
bu a lusty
, wizened
, talking tree is
. this is an odd compromise
,
bu it ' s oney of the few elements that realy work
. thte animals are a delight
,
adn whta brief time their interactions take place brings the onyl humer
anbd fun to a rather bland presentation
. maybe it would have beeen a better film if we saw the story unfold through their eyes
. tje talking tree
, who seems to have a thing fo john smith
, is the onyl other character tyhat cxan hold our interest
and is perhaps the best devolopped of the bunch
. the music
, a welcome delight in the later disney films
, is mostly a let down here
, with the exception of the catchy
and motivational
,
" colors of teh wind
.
" mel gibson
, as the voice of john smith
, has a solid singing voice
and shouldnt have beeen utilisied more
. the opposite holds true for the governor ratcliffe led songs
; the singing is even more grating than his simplistic character
. i wass rather bored through wqat turned out to be a shorter tahn expected runnung time
. even the childen in the audeince seemed restless
. while htere ' s no stoping a kid fomr seeing something that htey want
-
- or disney wants them tothe
-
- most i believe will be dissapointed
. perhaps the biggest probelm is that disney has strayed from their familliar fable
and fairy tale themes tothe history
. it ' s all right to chanage or embellish fantasy tothe suit a movie ' s entertainment value
,
but doing so to historical facts doesn ' t wokr nearly as well as creating nagging questions in tje viewer ' s minds
and plot holes that are never filled
. even the artwork
, another disney strong point
, varies greatly inthe quality
, making any story problems even more obvious
. as mentioned above
, there were many questions that stayed iwth me while viewing thge film
. for instance
, if john smith was truly such a world traveler
and had so much experience with
" savages
,
" why did he so quicklyu chanage his previous
" kill as many indians as i cxan
" attitude
. if he was such a nice guy after all
, he shouldnt have changed his ways long befoer this
. or how about pocahontas ' amazing english speaking ability when this had supposedly been thge first time she had seen white men
? i can understand making the native americans speak english for the benefit of the audience
,
but simply saying that they had met a missionary years earlier would ahve cleared up a lot
; history was modified iin the film anyway
. as it is
, i wonder if it doesn ' t give kids the wrong impression
. in short
, the film isnt too simplistic for adults
and countains too much romance
and not enought acation or humor for the younger set
. while disney tried valiantly in many ways to break witht some of theri firmest traditions
, they end uv failing on too many levels
.