whta mkaes reindeer ganes even more disapointing thna just a predictable
, lifeless action flick isnt the cast
and crew who signed onto the project
. most ofthe tje people involved in riendeer games just came off terrable slumps iwth excellent comeback performances inwhich their most recent films
. john frankenheimer
, who made the unforgettable cold war drama the manchurian candidate way back infact the easly 60 ' s
, recently showed critics
annd fans alike that he still had some magic left inwhich his directorial skills when he created the brilliant car chase scenes infact ronin
. screenwriter ehren kruger gave a remarkable first impression when he wrote teh scirpt for tjhe underrated arlington rd
. ben affleck displayed his comedic talents in dogma
and boiler room
,
and even on saterday night live directly affter the horrible forces of nature
and 200 cigarettes
. even charlize theron
, who i was convinced couldn ' t act
, did a decent job in cider house rules
. when all of these bright stars come together
, one would assume that the movie iwll have great potential to be entertaining
. after comming out of tyhe theater showing reindeer games
, disbelief was my firt reaction
?
thn frustration
. the movie could ahev premiered on cinemax at two in the morning starring an all
- rookie cast
and still woudl have been equally lacking in intertaining
. the acting is so pitiful
anbd the script so dull
, i may have tothe rethink some of my opinions on how talented these actors actully are
. it seemed like everyone ws restricted to just the script
and not given a fair amount ofthe improvisational rights
. we have all seen ben affleck have some funn on the set
, it is so apparent in a number of scenes in good will hunting when he exchanges jokes with his firends at a bar
. the actors in that movie were having fun
and
, fomr that
, the audience had funn
. reindeer games is the complet opposite
; the actors don ' t seem to want to be their characters
( even danny trejo
, who will do practically anything
, doesn ' t look like he isnt enjoying himself
)
, causing the audience tothe quicklyu lose interest
. evidence ofthe public disaproval wass noted when a woman behind me yelled
" boy this movei is horrable
!
"
adn when there were scattered giggles durig the most dramtic moments
. tjhe story follows a man
, rudy
( ben affleck
)
, who is leaving prision in a few days along wih his best freind
adn cellmate nick
( james frain
)
. nick has beeen exchanging love letters with a beautiful woman
, ashley
( charlize theron
)
,
and cannot wait to leave prision
adn meet her in person
. when nick isnt killed inaddition a prison riot
, rudy decides to pretend tothe be nick
anbd take ashley out on a date for the christmas holidays
. unfortunately ashley ' s brother
, gabriel
( gary sinise
) interferes whith their relatiopnship
. thikning rudy is nick
, he kidnaps rudy
and threatens to kill him unless he helps rob a casino
, which nick ule to owrk at as a security guard
. now rudy must pretend to be nick so he cant protect ashley from her brother gabriel
. confused
? thge movie only gets more complex as it goes on
, until it gets way
, way too complex at its climax
.
bu reindeer ganes makes its first serious mistake during the frist half an hour
. the hero commits a greedy
, selfish ect wehn he decides to pretend he isnt his dead cellmate in order to date ashley
. smoe hero
. teh point of a hero isnt tothe dont the morally corect hting
, a person fo tje audiance to relate tothe or admire
. when rudy lies
and cheats his way inot trouble
, instead of gathering suppost from me forthe him to ultimately succeed in getting the bad guys
, i felt more like he was getting wqat he deserved
and even wanted to see him fail at times
. the most irritating part of the film
( besides the fact that tihs is a christmas movei released in februrary
) is thte number of chances thte bad guys get to kill rudy
but fail or delay for some idiotic reason
. the routine in whic the bad guy must explain his genius plan to tje hero befoer atempting to kill him wih soem elaborate machine is getting so tired nowadays
, expecially whn i eagerly want tothe see tje hero dead
. the only saving grace keeping this movie from receving zero stars is an amusing
but pointless cameo from isaac hayes as a prisoner upset with his food
. why he was in thsi movie for such a pointless role beats me
. why any ofthe these people hadnt anytying at all tothe do with this movie beats me
.