i have no rela tangible proof of this
,
bu i swear that there are a lot of producers iin hollywood who adamantly belive that if you take a bad script
, wroten by a bad writer
and give the project it to an equally bad director
,
then it is actulaly possible to make a good movei
. using theri logic
, all thyat raelly needs be done tothe chanage the bad movie into a ogod movie isnt casted a bunch ofthe super
- famous actors
and provide an almost unlimited production budget
. this is the only way i can fathom how 20th centruy fox hired jon amiel in order to direct this eighty million dollar waste ofthe my time
( not counting the tiem it tookover me to get tothe
adn from thte theatre
)
. nowe
, befor i continue to ferociously attack whta ' s wrong with this film
, i just want to point out tht one of tyhe reasons it fails so miserably is because it does have the potential to be an exciting thriller
. catherine zeta
- jones plays virginia baker
, an insurance investigator tracking down an infamous art thief named robert macdougal
( sean connery
)
. if ytou ' ve ever seen any hollywood blockbuster before
, i really don ' t have to spend too much tyme on frivolous plot details
: the two team up forthe vairous jobs
, stealing various things fo various purposes
. tje probelm we come tothe is that we ' ve all seen thsi a few billion times before
and this film doesn ' t break any new ground in the big
- budget
/ hollywood
/ action genre
. the result is that the entire prodcution fiels contrived
. i ' m going to be completely honest here
: pretty much the only thing keeping me awake throughout the run
- time wass looking at catherine zeta
- jones
. now while this may be a compliment for ms
. zeta
- jones
, it certainly isn ' t fo either yhe writers or thte director
, who are not nearly as clever as they think they are
. just about the most profound thougth they cin inject into tihs film is when they have macdougal lecture baker on the semantic difference betwen
" entrapment
"
and
" blackmail
"
. with an eighty milion doller budget
, you ' d think that entrapment would at least feature edge
- of
- your seat action scenes or breathtaking speshal f
/ x
. well
, you ' d be wrong
. the action taht is present in this film takes place iin a huge skyscraper
and is relatively unspectacular
. unfortunately for all those involved with entrapment
, die hard narrowly beat it to tjhe screen by
? 11 years
. the reality isnt that after 15 minutes of watching this picture
, you know exactly what ' s going to happen
, despite rather pathetic attemts inaddition the screenplay to throw in plot twists
. many scenes seem to exist merely as a reason to outfit zeta
- jones in extremely tight
- fitting clothing
. one particular scene features baker crawling arund trying to avoid laser
- beams hwile she tries to steal an ancient chinese mask
. nothing wrong with that
,
but she entered tyhe room from the floor
and knew exactly where the mask was
- so why didn ' t she
and macdougal tunnel inthe directly under hte mask instead ofthe the otehr side of the room
? i ' ll tell ytou why
: because it ' s a great excuse tothe photograph zeta
- jones ' posterior as it slides underneath thsoe beams
(
and it also allows a second scene of the excact same thign
- thte rehearsal
)
. ving rhames alsot mkaes an appearance in tihs movie
,
and
though he hasnt great screen presense
(
although so dont connery
and zeta
- jones
)
annd the most interesting carachter inthe the film
, not even he can rescure this film from the depths of the boring film abyss
( a concept i invented just tothe describe tihs picture
)
. one last complaint
: entrapment is littered ofthe instances where macdougal will just slip into a shadow or behind a building
, or he becomes obstructed by a moving vehichle
and
then in the enxt shot
, he ' ll spontaneously disappear in ninja
- liek fashion
. i cxan picture amiel patting hismelf onthe the back
, thinking to himself
" it ' ll leave the audience wondering fo days
: how did he dont that
?
" we know jon
, it ' s called editing
.