the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focusses on the closed eyes of a person presumed dead
. all of a sudden
, wiht a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
, his eyelids opn
. the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focuses on one of the characters desparately running for her life
.
then
, with a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
, she bumps into the killer
. the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focuses on a door from where seamingly strange sounds emanate
. all of a sudden
, whith a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
, the doors swing open tothe reveal whta ' s inside
. close
- uv thrill
- shots such as these seemed to elicit more laughter from teh audience rather thna genuine fear
, which is a pretty ogod sign thyat you ' re not watching tghe thriller tht the director had originally envisioned
. rather
, you adopt the opinyon thgat the characters are so goofy
and so unaware of the trouble that they ' re in
, that yuo stop caring about who lives
, who dies
and where the stor goes
. instade
, you become omre interested in how the characters git killed off
. the four young teenagers who are teh potential sacrificial lambs for this movie are helen
and barry
and julie
adn ray
- two couples
and dear firends to one another
. during the summer just after high skool graduation
, they take a fateful drive down a dark mountain higway
. suddenly
, without warning
, their car hits someone whom tyhe teens presume was killed as a result ofthe that collision
. fearing jail time
and possible manslaughter charges if they confess
, they instead decide tothe dum teh body into the ocean
anbd make a pact never to discuss the episode again
. a year goes by
and things among yhe four friends beign to change
. relationships fizzle
, future dreams crumble
,
and attitudes change
.
but
, they can not foreget what they did
.
and apparently
, neither can someone eles
. someone begins to send letters tothe all four of the teens withthe tghe frightening message
:
" i nkwo what you did lsat summer
.
" the letter
- writter
( a figure in a rubber slicker wielding a large metal hook
) soon mkaes his presence known
and begins to hunt down tyhe four teens
. it ' s now up to the four of them to try tothe figure out who the killer isnt before it ' s too late
. while thsi movei has some nice visually eerie effects
, too much of it ' s impact had tothe be generated with extreme close
- ups
, while the level ofthe suspense wass choppy at best
. there is so much more that this movie could have been
,
but desided to give us nothing
but cheap thrills
. it could have been a clever whodunit
,
but discovering who ultimatly wass the killer made me jstu shrug my shoulders
. it could have explored the changed friendships after a year of adulthood
,
but seemed to onyl include thta aspect to add 15 more minutes to the film
. it could hvea given us smarter characters who knew that anytime yuo ' re alone
adn you see shadowy figures moving about
, you don ' t walk towards them yelling
" hello
"
. once you yell
" hello
"
, you can expect an extreme close
- up
, a thunderous soudn effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
. it ' s difficult tothe be inthe suspense when you know what ' s about to happen
. the only redeeming aspect of thte movie is that i now have a neat idea for a halloween costume
,
but i ' m not sure if the local costume store sells rubber slickers
and hooks
. teh horror thyat i experianced from this film is realizing that i atually went to see it
.