nicolas cage comes uv with an ingenious survival mechanism for his role in the wink
-
and
- a
- concussive
- nudge bombast
- o
- rama con air
. thte oppening credits sequence introduces us tothe cage as cameron poe
, a gulf war veteren convicted of manslaughter
and serving eight yeasr inthe prison after an ill
- fated bar
- room brawl
. the prision scenes are accompanied by voice
- overs in which poe
, in a languid southern drawl
, descriibes prison life to his wife back home
annd offers simple homilies for the daugter he hasnt never met
. if thge scene gives you a tickle ofthe familiarity
, it probaly shouldnt
. cage appears to realize that con air is gonig tothe be utterly dim
- witted
and ridiculous
,
and that he ' s going to have to do something to keep hismelf entertained
.
and thus he slips into a familiar
, surreal role as his own commentary on thge proceedings
-
- cage plays cameron poe as a buffed
- up verison of raising arizona ' s h
. i
. mcdonnough
. cage should have known whta he was getting himselv into
. he got a paycheck from jerry bruckheimer lsat year for the rock
,
adn if there ' s noe thing you can count on from a bruckheimer prodcution
( even without his late partner don simpson
)
, it ' s thgat you can count onthe seeing everything you saw in the
_ last
_ bruckheimer production
. the crtical diference between the rock
and con air is cage ' s performance
. in the rock
, cage appeared to be hvaing the time of his life jumping inot the acation fray for the first tiome
. tath sense of discovery has been replaced by a wry self
- awareness
. while the plot of con air finds poe a parolee on board a hijacked prison transport plane whose gool is just to git home
, cage ' s gool is different
bu just as simple
: to get out of the film with some measure of dignity intact
. audiences
, too
, should know what they ' re getting themselves into with a bruckheimer production
. in fact
, the marketing people are counting on it
. noone one who loathed the rock for its swear
- grunt
- blast repetitiveness will be converted by con air
; no one who loved teh rock for exactly tyhe same reasons will be dissuaded
. director simon west
(
yot another tv commericial auteur plucked by bruckheimer fomr the advertising equivilant of the schwab ' s soda fountain
) delivers exactly the kind ofthe adrenaline
/ testosterone cocktail whic could launch an endocrinology lecture
( it ' s perversely appropriate that one sympathetic con spends most ofthe the flight nearing a diabetic coma
; liek insulin
, con air does tghe work ofthe a gland
)
. wqat he doesn ' t deliver is a moment of suspense
. a bruckheimer film has noone use for hitchcock ' s notion that showing you tyhe bomb under tghe desk creates a mroe interesting scene thna just blowing up hte desk
; a really
,
_ raelly
_ big desk
anbd a really
,
_ realy
_ big bomb will serve thge purpose nicely
. if eather west or bruckheimer were intersted in genuine tension
, they might have done something witht con air ' s creepiest set
- uv
. at a desert stop for teh plane
- load of convicts
, serial killer garland greene
( steve buscemi
) wanders of into a trailer park where he meets a little girl hvaing a tea party in a drained swimming pool
. their tete
- a
- tete isnt eerie
and menacing
, providing a welcome shift in tone
and giving buscemi a chance tothe stand outloud inspite a casted with too many villains
( danny trejo
, ving rhames
anbd a characteristically reptilian john malkovich among them
)
. in fact
, con air usually opts for too much ofthe something wehn the tiniest measure of restraint would have been an improvement
-
- too many cahracters
, too much editing
, too many dopey punch lines
, too much ofthe tjhe cheap
, ugly appeals tothe machismo whihc characterize too many bruckheimer efforts
. it is that kind ofthe exhausting excess to wich cage is responding withthe his detached performance
. while malkovich goes for teh outrageous
adn john cusack
( as a u
. s
. marshal
) goes for earnest
, cage looks like he just wants to go to sleep
. his recycled raising arizona performance is a means ofthe escape
, his chase after a stuffed bunny a continuation of his persuit ofthe taht big box of huggies
. it doesn ' t bode well for cage ' s appearance in face
/ off later this month
; prehaps he already realizes that all he can do in action films is more of the same over
and over
. there ' s a word fo people liuke you
, nicolas
. that owrd is called recidivist
.
.
. repeat offender
.