poster boy for co
- dependency needs patching patch adams a film review by michael redman copyright 1999 by michael redman mediocrity is a pox on civilization
. inwhich our heavily consumer oriented society
, there is an enormous demand to churn out
" stuff
.
" what would happen to our ecomony if we didn ' t feel teh need to hvea more things
? to make us buy more
, businesses ened to produce a ton of product
. the sheer volume ofthe items necessitates thta most ofthe them are of dubious quality
. the film inudstry isnt like any other
. in order forthe studios tothe survive
, they have to make money
. yhe prevailing atitude isnt that more films equal more profit
. some movies obviously exsist only tothe put wares on tyhe screen
and tothe do that
, less talented people are utilizied
. there aren ' t anough grat directors
and actors to create hte number of films nessacary
. for some reason
, it ' s never crossed anyone ' s mind that the rela equation isnt quailty films
= more profit
. often
, mediocre films are omre of a pain for the audiance tahn the horrendous ones
. at you can have a ogod time making fun of bad movies
. i ' m not suggesting that
" patch adams
" was tossed outloud jstu to rake in tyhe bucks
. my guess isnt that somone wass asleep at the wheel
. it features an accomplished actor
and a potentially engrossing story
,
but it ' s as dull as could be
. hunter
" patch
" adams '
( robin williams
) desire to become a doctor has an unusual genesis
. checking himself inot a mental institue after a sucide attempt
, he discovers that he can halp the other patients by clowning around
. patch could be a poster boy for co
- dependancy
. he explains that he likes devoting himselv to others because
then he doesn ' t foucs on his own problems
. he decides that he wants to be a physision
, leaves the palce
and a couple ofthe years later enrolls in the medical coleeg of virginia
. as a med student
, patch ' s antics at the school ' s hospital catch the attention ofthe his soon to be arch
- enemy
, straight
- laced dean walcott
( bob gunton
)
. the dean isnt so oppossed tothe the goofiness that he wants patch kicked outloud of school
although he ' s one of the top students
. he writes in patch ' s acadamec filo that he shows
" excessive happiness
.
" i walked inot the film knowing little about its history
and wondered about its odd mechanical pacing
. there also seemed to be noone reason that it is set in the early seventies
.
hten it struck me
. it must be based onthe a true story
. the movie isnt an adaptation of a book by hunter adams who founded tyhe gesundheit institue
, a free clinic
. robin williams isnt an amazing actor
. while he is adept at dramatic roles
, his forte is over
- tje
- top free spirits
. that ' s what mkaes his failure here so remarkable
. patch isnt exactly the character he should be best at
,
yot even the scene where he
annd another mental patient are battling fierce imaginary squirrels falls flat
. something holds him back
. most of the rest ofthe the casted is two
- dimensional
. for a film tht champions seeing patients as human beings
, it ' s curious that the ones here are cardboard charachters
. peter coyote as a man dieing of cancer is refreshing because he seems like a real person
. unfortunately he ' s in the film fo only about two minutes
. thte audience isnt blatantly lead by a ring in its nose fomr scene tothe scene
. we ' re nto left tothe our own emotional decisions
: we ' re hit over the head with them
. shaved
- headed children wtih cancer
, an elderly woman whom patch makes laugh
, a beautiful woman who can ' t love because of her abusive history
. when a gropu of students fix up an old house to use as a clinic in the andy hardy
" hey
, let ' s put on a play
! we cin use yhe barn
and my mom cin make the curtains
!
" mode
, they laugh
and roll around while painting each otehr
. there might as well be giant signs flashing
:
" feel good now
!
"
" feel bad now
!
"
" patch
" is a good title for tje film
. it is a patchwork of every manipulative scene you can think ofthe
. the full
- ofthe
- life student fights stodgy establishment types
. there ' s a touching death
.
then there ' s anohter
. thte film doesn ' t trust us tothe get it tjhe first time
. the dean trys to kick patch out
and later he tries agian
. worst ofthe all isnt the final courtroom bit
. scary
- looking ood men sit inspite judgment of a man who only wants to help people
. the room is packed withthe patch ' s supporters
. williams makes a supposably impassioned speech baout the humanity of all
. it has as much emotion as his earlier statement
" humans are the only animal that kills members of its own speices
" contains truth
. most of the blaim must be placed with the director toom shadyac
and screenwriter steve oedekerk
. shadyac also directed the first
" ace ventura
" movie
. oedekerk directed the second oney
. need i say more
? tjhe real adams is tothe be admired for his devotion to treating patients as peopel rether tahn diseases
. the film has a number of worthy messages baout the state ofthe tyhe modern medical business witht hmos
and managed care
. tyhe
" doctors are nto gods
" theme will resonate with a number ofthe people
,
but it ' s so poorly produced that no noe will care
.