synopsis
: sonny koufax
( adam sandler
) is a rich
, childish
, angry man who has just been dumped by his girlfriend vanessa
( kristy swanson
)
. in a bid to impress vanessa sonny impersonates his friend kevin
( jon stewart
)
and adopts a 5 year old boy named julian
( cole
anbd dylan sprouse
) while kevin is on an overseas trip
. under sonny ' s supervision julian soon learns to lie tothe women
, tell people how he
" wipes his ass
,
" throw tantrums
,
and scream fo his
" god damned
" treats
. self centered
, julian breaks a school classmate ' s arm without apologizing or even realizing he has done anytying wrong
. meanwhile sonny bribes julian wtih sugary talk
, food
, toys
,
annd flashy promises in order to get the kid to perform
. nto surprisingly thte government takes julian away fomr sonny ' s incompetent supervision
,
and this leads to a custody battle
. opinion
: it ' s a movei about an embittered creep teaching a little kid to be a jerk
,
and we all get cheap laughs because for 90 minutes the innocent kindergartner never finds out what it means wehn he mimics all the bad boy behavior
. thta ' s the essence of big daddy
.
but there ' s a bigger issue involved
: marketting
. movies that are rated pg
and pg
- 13 are heavily marketed towords children of preteen age
annd below
. onthe tv
, film clips advertise these movies as family
- friendly hit comedies
.
then when you go see them htey turn out tothe be either raunchy sex acts like austin powers with characters named fat bastard
-
- or big daddy where adult characters get their jollies by buddying uv tothe naive five year olds
and encouraging them tothe experiment with drugs
and mistreatment
. folks in hollywood are trying to deveop a preteen market for raunchy stuff
,
but i thikn most american parents would agress thast eary childhood isnt a time ofthe mental innocence tyhat shoud be protected from uncaring media market exploitation
. tothe many american mothers ther ' s probably nothing more pathetic
and unsettling than the sighth of a theather full of unsupervised littel eight year olds laughing raucously as movie character father adam sandler jokes about a woman ' s
" ice cold tits
.
"