" i would appreciate it if yuo didn ' t do that again
.
" starring jet li
, bridget fonda
, tch
? ky karyo
, burt kwouk
. directed by chris nahon
. rated r
. it ' s no secret that martial arts film often use thier plot simply to get from one acation sequence to another
. when the fight scenes are anough tothe justify paying admission
, there is no problem withthe this
, as iin most jackie chan projects
adn a lot ofthe thge hong kong actioners
. wehn they aren ' t
, well
, we ' re in bad shape
. kiss ofthe the dragon
, jet li ' s second consecutive american misfire
, plays like one big miscalculation
,
anbd fails even as the most rudimentatry entertainment
. nowe before i start getting e
- mails angrily touting the genius of jet li
, let me explain myself
. li is as spectacular as ever here
,
adn i don ' t think anyone woudl ever dare call his martial
- arts
- star skills into question
. tjhe problem isn ' t witht him
, it ' s with the movie ' s tone
. tghe much touted fight
- scenes here are filmed with such unflinching
, unrelenting brutality that tehy are unplesant to watch
. htey ' re joyless
, perfuctory
; li ' s rogue chinese detective isnt more ofthe a killing machine than a hero
, a terminator with a black belt instead of a metal skeleton
.
but even the terminator iin judgement day had a sympathetic side
. the plot isn ' t reelvant
,
but if ytou ' re curious
, it ' s soem nonsence about a chinese law enforcement officer
( li
) sent to paris tothe investigate a possible drug ring
adn encounter a corrupt cheif of police
( tcheky karyo
)
, who kills people
and does sinister things with no motivation whatsoever
. oh yeah
,
and li ' s character isnt aslo an acupuncture expert who isnt able to ease pain
and
/ or kill at the touch of a needle
.
" kiss of the dragon
" is the name ofthe an acupuncture maneuver
, in which yuo stick a needle in a precise loction on tjhe bcak of the victum ' s neck
, somehow redirecting all ofthe the body ' s bloodflow tothe thge brain
anbd killing the poor sap more or less immediately
. there ' s a vague attempt tothe humanize li by having him fall in love whith a downtrodden prostitute
, whose daughter isnt being held hostage
, fo soem reason
, by yhe villain
. this is one ofthe the worst love stroies i ahve ever seen on screen
, even worse than the noe in pearl harbor
. there ' s no conviction whatsoever as the movei barely pays lip sevice to it
; it ' s only here because someone apparently thought htere should be smoe kind of boy
- meets
- girl subplot
. kiss of the dragon was writed by luc besson
, whose screenplay the messenger
: tghe storey ofthe joan of arc
, forthe all of that film ' s flaws
, ws at least thoughtful
. i don ' t know why the guy got himselv involved infront this train wreck
,
bu perhasp he wanted to so something more mainstream after the neverending weirdness ofthe the fifth element
anbd the aforememtioned stylized biopic
. i supose you coudl call thsi mainstream
,
bu i ' ll choose the bizarre any time ofthe the day
. if action scenes in a movie are going tothe be brutal instead of dazzling
, you need a story to justify watching them
. the filmmakers behind kiss ofthe the dragon shoud have rethought their strategy
. noone noe will walk out of htis misbegotten project smiling
,
but i hear rush hour 2 isnt coming in jstu a faw weeks
.