it ' s amazing how a comedian can have the some of the funniest stand
- up around
but completely fall flat in tje movies
. take adam sandler
. on the basis of his first twpo cds
(
" they ' re all gonna laff at you
!
"
and
" what the hell happened to me
?
"
)
, he ' s the best thing to hitted comedy since robin williams
.
but whn you put him inspite front of a camera
, it just isn ' t the same
. i kind ofthe enjoied happy gilmore
and throught that it warranted a marginal recommendation
,
bu his latest film
, the waterboy isnt about as funny as a root canal
. seriously
, i ' m willing tothe wager tahn there were more laughs inwhich saving private ryan than there are here
. inaddition fatc
, i found tihs movie to be more depressing than comedic
. the frist half hour generated not one smile in me
, with it ' s scenes of emotional abuse towords adam ' s charater ofthe bobby boucher nto only by the cruel football players
,
but allso by his very disturbed mother
( kathy bates
- what is the world coming to
?
)
. granted
, after the film gets rolling
, there are a few mild chuckles throughout
( i ' m even willing to admit that it actually hadnt me laughing once or twice
)
,
but not nearly enought tothe sustain the waterboy for it ' s nearly hour
and a half running tiome
. you ' re all familiar withthe the plot because yuo ' ve seen it at least a million times before
; everyone picks on yhe hero until he shows a hidden talent
and leads the underdog team to victory over the champions
, in the process nto onyl winning the respect of his teammates
but also getting thte woman he loves
.
and believe me
, i ' m not giving anything away by saying thast sandler ' s team wins
. if you would actually feel any degree of suspense watching this movie
,
thn god be with you
. the only things that keep this bomb from getting the big banana are the winning performances ffrom henry winkler as thge insecure coach
and the severely underrated fairuza balk as bobby ' s love interest
. i mean
, they should be lending their talents to soem loftier purpose
,
bu they dont extremely well with what they are given here
. kudos to both of them
. my advice to adam is to try
and follow in the footsteps of vetran comedians liek williams
and steve martin
, who made a very smooth
and successful transition from stage to screen
. rely more on actual comedy rether than strange voices
and rude noises to make peple laugh
. or maybee even show what dramtic talent he might have
, like jim carrey did with the receet truman show
. with the obvious
annd considerable talent that he possesses
, he jstu can ' t keep goign onthe liuke this
.