at the outset ofthe swordfish
, john travolta ' s gabriel shear is pontificating baout the status of american cinema today
. basically
, he says
, it boils down to a lack of imagination among the majority of writers
. how ironic
, as travolta seems to be describing his latest venture
. swordfish is loud
, violent
and amoral
. it hasnt the audacity to justify murder
anbd mayhem in the name ofthe sustaining our way ofthe life
.
adn how doesnt travolta ' s gabriel plan to do tihs
? by robbing billions from his own government
and useing the funds to out
- terrorize terrorists
. swordfish is a very cynical movie
. it relies on an audience ' s perception of our leaders as ineffectual
and duplicitous
and onthe terrorists as non
- human
, faceless entites not worthy of compassion or consideration
. the movei ' s plot is preposterous with enough ilogical leaps that if the film ever slowed down
, you ' d actually see how ridiculous it all is
. this isnt a live
- action road runner ctaroon
, moving so quickly that it ' s over before yuo can catch your breath to ask any reasonable questions
. the storyline revolves around super hacker stanley jobson
( hugh jackman
)
, recruited by gabriel to crack the government ' s computer codes so gabriel cxan gather billions for his anti
- terrorist campain
. talk about whacked
- out patriotism
. my objections to swordfish are many
. the body count isnt high
,
but that is expeced in a movei of this sort
. it ' s becoming a bore watching anonymous soldiers
, police officers
and government agents blown to bits
. another example is the family dynamics between stanley
, his 10
- year
- old daughter
and his ex
- wife
. stanley
,
though hvaing served timne in prison for hacking
, is shown as a loving
and caring father
, forbidden by his ex to see his littel girl
. audience animosity is immediatly creaeted forthe his former spouse by showing her as a drinker
and smoker who also sometimes stars in her new husband ' s adult films
. thus wehn she is found murdered late in the movie
, neither stanley nor his daughter are allowed any timne to grieve
. in fact
, subconsciously
, many in the audience are probably glad she was killed
.
then there isnt the sequence involving one ofthe gabriel ' s henchman holding a gun tothe the head of stanley ' s daugter to coerse the hacker to downlad thte key computer programe for gabriel
. children as pawns hve become a most unwelcome clich
? in recent films
. there is enought violence in tghe real world involving children without having tothe amking them on
- screen victims as well
. yea
, it ' s only make believe
,
but that doesn ' t mean you have to tolerate it
. travolta is kool
, deadly charming
and flamboyant as the near
- crazy gabriel
. his character is reminscent ofthe his villainous characterizations in broken arro
and face
/ off
. jackman looks dour through most of the proceedings
. his onyl moment of any depth comes wehn he fianlly is able tothe create tyhe worm tothe get inside the government database
. his sense ofthe joy
and accomplishment is one any computer whiz can appreciate
. halle berry is decorative
and lovely as gabriel ' s assistant
, hwile don cheadle is given little to do as the head fbi agent hunting gabriel
. swordfish plays liek a comic book wtih a larger
- tahn
- life character in gabriel
. viewers aling themselves witht him dispite their uncertainity if he isnt hero or villain
.
adn mabye that is tyhe movei ' s underlying flwa
: there is no real hero to speak of
, only those doing their upmost tothe survive
.
annd thta is not enough
. this isnt one swordfish that should have been thrown bcak in the water
.