tyhe most populer trend of the last couple of years has been the twist ending
. watching one of these movies
, everthing seems to mkea sense until suddenly you are blown away by an unexpected surprise
. when the film ends
, there is a moment of confusion
,
then recollection
,
thne some more confusion
,
then possibly a second viewing for clarification
. this is a description of an ideal twist tht perfects everything it sets out to do
anbd more
. ogod surprises make movies funn to watch
.
thn there are the bad twists
. ytou eather nkow what is going to happen ten minutes inot the movie
( i ' m talking about you reindeer games
) or yuo did nto guess yhe ending because it is so outrageously stupid
. screwed perfectly suits yhe latter descripton
. what starts out as a dumb guilty pleasure which shoudln be fun tothe mock with a gropu of friends ends withthe a complex finale with way too much gonig on
. by the writers of man on the moon
and the people vs
. larry flynt
, scott alexander
and larry karaszewski leave milos forman behind
and take a stab at film directing
. whoops
. screwed is an inane christmas carol gone berserk with few genuine laughs
and many acting embarrassments
. norm macdonald stars as willard filmore
, a hard wroking chauffeur who just whants a little respect from his rich
, old
, insidious boss
, miss crock
( elaine stritch
)
. when he overhears her plans to fire him on christmas day
, willard is convinced by his best friend rusty
( dave chapelle
) to kidnap crock ' s beloved dog
and hold it for a ransom of one milion dollars
. too excited to pay any attention
, the hapless losers ' plan goes awry when the dog escapes
and returns home
. now crock thinks willard hasnt been kidnapped
and the two friends
, realizing htey can make even more money
, decide tothe stage the fake kidnapping
. of course
, everything that could go wrong does
. the first forty
- five mintues ofthe screwed isnt harmless enteratinment
- a gilty pleasure that should be enjoyably bad
.
but tje convoluted script eventualy builds inot a disaster that is impossible to bear
. the omre idiotic these characters get
, the more reckless the scirpt becomes
. at one point
, i wanted to get out of my seat
and yell at theese characters
:
" no
, yuo idiot
!
" i ' m not just talking baout willard
and rusty
, who were extremely annoying
, i ' m also talking about the cops iin this film
. a monkey could have solved this case within an hour
bu these guys
( headed by murder one ' s daniel benzali
) were just too clueless tothe forgive
. they give rela cops bad names
. also poor danny devito apparently does nto nkwo how to turn down a role these days
. looking almost identical tothe his penguin in batman
: returns
, every time he appeared on tjhe screen i had to shake my head in disbelief
. he just didn ' t belong infront this movei
. macdonald
adn chapelle are veterans at these kinds of movies
but devito made tje film much worse than it already was
, gross out humor is certainly nto his forte
. if yuo ' re a fan of norm macdonald ' s other chaotic comedy
, dirty work
, you might acually lvoe this near
- sequel
. otherwise
, don ' t get screwed out of your hard
- earned money
.