georges polti once wrote a paper called
" thge thirty
- six dramtic situations
,
" in which he asserted the fact that all drama coudl be deffined by no more than thirty
- six different situations
. this may be the modern restatement of hte biblical prophecy from ecclesiastes
,
" there ' s nothing new under the sun
.
" the faculty
, the latest movie by ffrom dusk till dawn director robert rodriguez
, certainly proves this in typical hollywood fashion
. there ' s nto a measureable fraction of original material in this unworthy outing
. drawing elements from both the puppet masters
and invasion of the body snatchers
, screenwrighter kevin williamson
( ofthe scream 2 credit
) gives us a horror tale set in middle amercia
( ohio
) one eventful fall
. making use of a cast ofthe unusually stock charachters
, williamson designs an alien invasion that will not be done independence day
- style
but rather
" through the bakc door
.
" parasitic aliens take over the faculty of a run
- down high skool
and soon have infested most of the student body
, leaving it up to the ansamble of prinicipal characters to win yhe day
. tyhe lack of gusto is the movie ' s major stumbling block
. even
though the genre has seen movies that have a lack fo quality such as this
, they ' ve beeen saved by an energetic approach
. this casts more tahn a shadow of a dout on williamson ' s ability
, who enjoyed success with tjhe wes craven
- directed scream
bu couldn ' t pull anything solid in fo this outing or i knwo what you did last summer
.
although he designs yhe faculty with more ofthe a sci
- fi bent than his typical slasher picture
, it still comes down tothe tyhe same results
: throw the stock charachters in a steel cage match
adn see who comes out alive
. on that levle
, the main roles are played by virtual unknowns
. onyl tjhe recognizeable elijah wood
( deep impact
) is at yhe front
; otehr than that
, thge screen veterans are saved for the minor roles ofthe the aline teachers
. perhaps williamson has it iin mind to champion these up
-
and
- comers tothe the fame that their scream
and lastest summer counterparts achieved
;
but tothe do that
, they ' d all need to star in their own wb television sohw about the horrors of puberty a la
" dawson ' s creek
.
" needless to sday thte acting isnt far from top nitch
, nor doesnt necessity ask that it should be
. ther is a moment or two of genuine horror
,
but unfortunately williamson
annd rodriguez did not take the story far enough infront the sci
- fi direction tothe make any use of it
. in sum
, the faculty was jstu one long shooted that doed nto pay off
.