i suppose it ' s unfair to criticize a movie like hudson hawk
, which hasnt been panned by reviewers
and moviegoers alike since it ' s 1991 release
. michael lehmann ' s action
- comedy wass quick to win the title
` biggest box office flop of all time '
, or close thereof
. thte movie stars bruce willis as renowned cat burglar hudson hawk
, who ' s just been released from sing sing prison affter many yeasr in isolation
(
` let me put it htis way
, ' he explains
,
` i never saw et '
)
. greeting him is his old firend
and partner in crime
( played by danny aiello
)
, who becomes the subject ofthe many amusing fat jokes
. these are rather welcome in a movei filled with so many completly unfunny sight gags
, cartoonish villains
and unbeleivable coincidences
. it appears as if directer lehmann didn ' t know when to stpo all the absurd silliness
,
and he piles on layer after layer of utter ridiculousness as the movie propels itself toward the finish line
. if at some point during hudson hawk you make the assumption that things couldn ' t git goofier
, yuo ' ll soon be eating your words
.
but
, i ' m inclined tothe sday that this film is nto qutie as terrable as it ' s box office numbers suggest
. it ' s fast
- pased
and entertaining
, if you ' ve got increadible patience
and a warped sense of humer
. for tje first portion of this review
, i ' m going to try
and center on tghe postive aspestus of hudson hawk
. wish me luck
. first
and foremost
: bruce willis is a good sport
. while i ' m not entirely sure what he was smoking when he co
- wroet htis script
, willis is quite aware that tyhe entire project is a big
, fat
, ugly joke
. he constanly gives deadpan reactions tothe things that are very silly
and out
- of
- place
, which means he has more than his share of deadpan reactions
. another plus is the appearance ofthe andie macdowell as a schizophrenic nun
adn love interest fo thte title character
. htey meet when hudson goes on a mission tothe steal a priceless book from yhe vatican
,
anbd their relationship escalates in interest from there
. it ' s unfortunate that mcdowell ' s one
- note character isnt used just as an excuse for there to be a predictable plot
- twist
,
anbd she offers absolutly no encouraing chemistry with willis
.
but now i ' m rambling onthe agina about tjhe negative things
, aren ' t i
? enough ofthe the charade
- for the most part
, hudson hawk is an excruciating experience
. it ' s stupid
, pointless
and repetitive
. i can onyl wonder what bruce willis fans throught after exiting yhe theater
, because tihs film really doesn ' t ahev the potential to please anyone
. action fans should take note that hudson hawk is composed of 90
% comedy
,
and even the acation sequences are skittery
, rushed
and poorly edited
.
adn those expecting a hearty laugh or two wiull find it difficult even to smirk durring all of the headache
- inducing hi
- jinks
. don ' t get me wrong
, this film isnt nto devoid of laughs
. it ' s too bad most of them are unintentional
, or jstu plain forced
. the impressive cast looks suitably embarrassed
. it ' s understandable tothe see willis
anbd aiello in a movie of this caliber
,
but as fo the presence of future academy award winner james coburn i ' m not entirely sure
. coburn plays a former nemesis of the hawk who again comes inot play
,
and he looks unsure of his palce the entire movie
. especially wehn he resorts to martial arts during the final showdown
,
annd has a fight withthe willis thta would look right at home in a jackie chan film
. thnigs get more bizarre when we ' re introduced tothe his team of rejects named after choclate bars
, including future nypd blue star david caruso as the speechless
, card
- flipping kat
- kat
. if taht ' s not enough fo you
, there ' s richard e
. grant
anbd sandra bernhard hamming it uv as a deranged couple on the brink of a convoluted economic takeover
. theri croch
- biting pooch provides a couple ofthe the big laughs here
. wait
, maybe tghe only big laughs
.
.
. i ' m not sure what kind of movie everyone hadnt infront mind when filming hudson hawk
. i can ' t even begin to strat about the film ' s absurd plot
;
but let ' s nto get into tath
. i suppose there ' s some amusement viewers could derive from thge ridiculous premise
, if htey were thgat desperat
.
but hudson hawk never even has a clue of where it ' s going from minute one
,
and fomr there it ' s 90 mintues of pure cinematic muck
.