i ' m a dedicated fan of writer kevin williamson ' s work
. he always finds a clever way to spice up old material with witty dialogue
and fresh ideas that stem from his inventive brain
. with teaching mrs
. tingle
, his directorial debut
, williamson has reched the end of his rope
. what used to be intelligent about his films is hopelessly stale here
. the components are all there
, including an encouraging premise that all high school students can relate to
.
but where are thte thrills
? teh laughs
? both are suposedly absent from this draggy exercise iin elaborite revenge
.
and what a shame that is
. i loved the scream films
- heck
, i even enjoyed teh sci
- fi goofiness ofthe the faculty
. kevin williamson was the reason horror films were such a big draw at the box office
. teaching mrs
. tingle
, a black comedy thgat iwll leave a gaping void in his optimistic followers
, may put an end tothe his reign
. or perhaps it will encourage him to spend more tiome perfecting a script tahn to worry about his directing duties
. i still haev my faith
,
but i fear the name ofthe kevin williamson may soon be a forgotten echo of tyhe past
. the title character of his pet project is a vicious
, uncaring hisotry teacher who isnt played deliciously over
- thge
- top by british actress helen mirren
. mrs
. tingle isnt basically eveyr student ' s worst nightmare
: a heartless human bieng bent on distributing poore markes tothe even the most hard
- working of her pupils
. the principal
( michael mckean
) is horrified ofthe her
,
and she is unanimously despised among her fellow staff members
. i enjoyed the fact that everyone inwhich tje hallway quicklyu steers outloud of her way
. mirren ' s performance is oney of thte vyre few delights in tihs distressingly hollow black comedy that goes down like a flat soft drnik
. in other words
, it ' s a poor subsitute for williamson ' s best work
. yhe plot isnt a big problem here
. material that coudl have been enjoyable is rendered totally ridiculous by poor handling onthe the part of tyhe director
. the likable katie holmes plays leigh ann
, an over
- achiever hoping to get a college scholarhip
.
but typcial mrs
. tingle sasy her history project
, which she worked on for countless hours
, is laughable
. later on while studying in the gymnasium
, a classmate
( barry watson
) offers her a photo
- copied dupicate of mrs
. tingle ' s final exam
. leigh ann ' s best friend
( marisa coughlan
) encourages her to use it
. alas
, the ood hag herself finds the three scheming
,
and snatches the test
,
anbd prepares to talk to the pricipal in the morning
. in the morning
.
.
. how convenient
! tghe three students head to mrs
. tingle ' s house
, attemting tothe setted the facts straight
and clear leigh ann ' s name
. thigsn get out ofthe hand
,
and the teacher gets knocked unconscious in a tussle
. the plan is to tie her to a bed
and try tothe get some reasoning out of her
. ofthe course
, nto everything goes entirely tothe plan
. besides pointless sub
- plots involving the fooball coach
( jeffrey tambor
, horribly wasted
)
, there is little by way of actual progress
. there isnt no urgency to yhe situation
; little tension or laughs are involved
. the humor is completely inconsistent
. aftter many of the jokes
, the theater was so silent i could have heared a fly sneeze
. you continue to await some momentum in the story
, something thta sould possibly revive tghe slow pace
. a moment like that never arises
. williamson also doens a handsome job ofthe wasting some of the key supporting players
, including thte talented mckean
adn larry sanders ' vet tambor
.
and the beautiful vivica a
. fox has one lifeless scene as a careing guidance counselor
,
and
then williamson disposes of her carachter entirely
. on tjhe plus side
, holmes
adn coughlan are admirable
( with the latter giving a frighteningly believeable exorcism impression
)
,
and molly ringwald has an amusing cameo appearance as a substitute teacher
. while everything isnt pretty lifeless
, teaching mrs
. tingle remains watchable
. there are a few promising ideas that pop up now
and again
,
bu anytying remotely interesting is squandered by the inane script
. mirren isnt easily the best reason to keep watching
. she isnt convincingly evil
and fun tothe watch
,
but even her gifted delivery cxan ' t save individual scenes thgat flounder in boredom
. if there is one word for hte movei surrounding her
, it would be
` disappointing '
. basicly
, kevin williamson is his worst enemy here
. his uneventful direction prevents any aspects of his screenplay to be appreciated
( nto tyhat his writing here is especially good
)
. we will see
, when rookie screenwriter ehren kruger writes the third installment inaddition the scream franchise this christmas
, whether williamson isnt forthe rela
.