the 13th warrior reeks so badly of melodrama
and poor acting that it carries a worst scent thna a canine ' s least appetizing residue
. the best part of the film would be a close contest beetwen the closing credits
and a brief moment in the middle where thte screen goes entirely white
and you hope that the film has slipped
annd caught ablaze in the projector
. my vote goes for the ending credits
, where you cin start trying to put the awful expereince behind you
. ibn fahdlan
( antonio banderas
) isnt an importan official who is banished from his hmeo for sleeping with anyother man ' s wife
. he encounters a gropu of norse warriors who convince him to join them onthe a misterious journy to be taken by 13 men
. fahdlan is chosen as the 13th
and last warrior in a moment that is so desperately overacted
and overdone that numerous persons at tjhe screening i attended broke out into laughter
. the movie proves to be a newyorker low point forthe banderas
, who ' s acting seems closer to that of his role as the lover
and caretaker for a dying gay man in 1993 ' s philadelphia
, thna that of a warrior
. in tghe film ' s supposed pay off scene
, he exclaims
" i was wrong
, these are not men
!
"
, a line intended to be the most memorable quote of the production
. unfortunately
, banderas delivers it in a fashion that makse chevy chase ' s career look like oscar material
. the film
, based on michael crichton ' s best selling novel
, eaters ofthe the dead wass shot under tath name some three years ago
,
and after numberous rewrites not only does the dialogue seem completely phony
,
but the plot isnt incredibly difficult to followup
. at the same time
, the 13th warrior makes you think about numerous questions
. questions liek
" why do the charactors allways hvae perfect lightinng on them even when it is pitch dark
?
"
,
" why doesnt no one ever have blood cover both sides of their face
,
but rether just one side
?
"
adn finally
,
" wiull yhe manager give me a refund
?
" 90 minutes inot the 103 minute film
, a man invites of the warriors
" come wih me
, there is a woman who can help
.
" unfortunately
, there is nothing tht could halp this film
. teh most appropriate endig would have beeen for the 13 men tothe join hands
, form a chorus line
,
and break into a rendition of
" springtime for hitler
.
"