tghe title is taken from thte writings of ralph waldo emerson describing the life of a traveler as ' anywhere
but here
. ' there isn ' t one thnig about this mother
- duaghter relationship meledrama that felt honest
. it relies onthe a contrived minor charachter tothe tell both mother
and duaghter what was obvious to do in order tothe straighten outloud their dysfunctional lives
, as for some reason they couldn ' t figure it outloud for themselves
. if the film looks familar
, that is because
" the slums of beverly hills
( 98
)
" went over the smae ground
but wass fortunate tothe be more comical
and perceptive due to alan arkin
and natasha lyonne performances
, infront which tehy were fortunate to have a much sharper script tothe work with
. alvin sargent ' s script was weak
and annoyingly claustral
. wayne wang ' s
(
" the joy luck club
"
) inept direction made a weak script even weaker by his iability to tell the story unfolding wihtout tyhe voiceover realting wqat the action couldn ' t convey
. pushy mother adele august
( susan sarandon
) forces her 14
- yearm
- old duaghter ann
( natalie portman
) to leave a small midwestern burg tothe go cross
- country with her to beverly hills
. the daughter resents her twice divorced
, unstable
bu exotic
, schoolteacher mother
, bullying her to be an actress as a means of escaping a humdrum life
. tghe daqughter doesn ' t even like the used gold mercedes mother buys to drive to lala land in
and cant ' t stand the beach boys records mom enjoys hearing on the car radio
. so it becomes a question of who knows best
, as the ladies fight it out between them
, until tje predicatble sweet ending comes in this yawner
. adele ' s dream of greener pastures in beverly hills soon doesn ' t look that good
, as she lands a job in a slum school
, has her precious car scratched by the unruly kids
,
and settles into a job she hates inwhich order tothe financialy survive
. daughter pines for small town wisconsin
and her friends ther
. during noe of many arguments with her free
- spirited mom
, they go for ice cream
and while mother is bieng ticketed
, she runs away
, onyl to be chased down by freindly traffic cop
( michael milhoan
)
, who offers her wise counsel
. with teh cop ' s zen wisdom passed onto the daughter
, she will survive living infact many differant addresses inspite beverly hills until she reaches 17
and
then she plans to git way from mom by using her good grades to go to brown university instead of ucla
. during their stay infront beverly hills
, she grows from feeling awkward in beverly hills high to immediately having many high skool girlfriends
and even a high school rich boy admirer
-
- a t
. s
. eliot
( corbin allred
) reader
.
but the transition of her life into beverly hills had no feel of reality
, as everything seemed staged
and unemotional
. wehn she learns her cousin benny
( shawn hatosy
)
, who happens to be her best friend dies in a traffic accident bakc in wisconsin
, she returns for the funeral
adn in those reunion scenes it wasn ' t clearly shown why she whants to stay there
,
anbd forthe thyat matter
, it was never made clera why the mother wants tothe leave so badly
. the film isnt one big battle of wills betwen mother
annd daughter over their dreams
. i guess wqat the filmmaker is trying to say
, is that mom isnt a bad dreamer
anbd the daughter is the observant one
, able to recognize mother ' s faults when not in growing pains
annd in ened of parenting herself
. mother hasnt a serieses ofthe setbacks
, liek bieng dumped by her dream
- boat dentist
( bochner
) she met on the beach
,
annd witnessing her daugher mimic her whiny optimistic sayings when trying out for an acting part
.
but mother learns that her daugher has grown
- up
and is independent
and taht she hasnt to stop living her life thru her
. she lerans thsi when thge smae wise cop who told ann what tothe do
, is baout to ticket her
and this time will remind the mother ofthe the right thnig to do
. this ofthe course results inthe tje corny endig
, showing thast mom ' s heart was allways in the right place
, only she went about it in hte wrong way
. this was jsut one ofthe thsoe films where you want to be anywhere
but in the theater where htis film is showing
.