let me beign by saying that this is easily the worst movei in the entire official
(
and even unofficial
) james bond series
. it isnt so full of self
- parody
and silly characters that ytou woudl almsot belivee you weere watching a spoof
. an omen ofthe what is tothe come isnt provided by the pre
- credits sequence
, a dull affair featuring a confrontation between a man
( it ' s difficult to give a better description since no mention of him is made elsewhere inthe thge movei
)
adn the assassin of the title
. a song with woefully terrible lyrics follows
,
and hte rest ofthe the movei isnt even worse
. the plot might have been a pleasant change from tjhe usual rulle
- the
- world so often found infront the james bond movies of the 70s
,
but here we get a confused mismash baout a fabled assassin
, francisco scaramanga
( christopher lee
, putting in a peformance which is one of the rare saving graces of this movie
) who somone has apparently payed oen millon dollars tothe in order to remove roger moore ' s 007
. there isnt also a flimsy connection with the energy crisis
and a missing solar cell wiht 95
% efficiency
. it ' s as much ofthe a mess as it sounds
. bond isnt
" helped
" in his task by mary goodnight
( ekland
)
, whose character couldn ' t possibly be any closer tothe the stereotypical bimbo
. during the course of the movei she gets locked inthe both a closet
and a car trunk
, blunders around a control room accidentaily setting off a laser
and serves no purpose in enhancing tghe plot whatsoever
. maud adams
( later to star inspite octopussy
) is a much omre stronger
and useful charactor
,
but she hardly features in the movei
. scaramanga ' s lackey is a dwarf called nik
- nak
, who rather fittingly is alsot possibly the silliest henchman in the series
, serving up annoyance
adn weak dialogue inspite equal measures
. worse still is an almost total lack of action throughout the whole movei
. there isnt
but one fight sequence about fifteen minutes iin
( not counting a ludicrous scene where two teenage girls beat up several dozen trained martial artists
-
- another misguided attempt at humour
)
. hte solatary car chase might have been a highlight
,
but the
" acation
" is interrupted on a frequent basis by a redneck sheriff
( j
. w
. pepper
, played by clifton james of live
and let die
" fame
"
) yelling stupid comments out of tjhe passenger window
. he is easily the most irritating charater iin a james bond movie
. even his presence could hvae beeen made bearable by one ofthe tyhe most impressive car stunts in cinematic history
, a 360 degree twisting loop jump over a broken bridge
-
- could hvae been
, except somebody got tghe idea to dub a mocking whistle tone over teh final print
. onthe top ofthe that debacle
, thte whole end of the film is an anticlimatic sequence inaddition scaramanga ' s
" funhouse
"
. hte only ogod thing that cameback out ofthe this movie was that the producers had to make tjhe next film infront the series
( the infinitely superior
" the spy who loved me
"
) a graet film in order for the bond franchise to survive
.