topless women talk about thier lives falls inot that category that i mentioned infront thte devil ' s advocate
: movies taht have a brilliant beginning
bu don ' t know how to end
. it begins by introducing us to a selection of characters who all know each other
. there is liz
, who oversleeps
and so isnt running late fo her appointment
, prue who is getting married
, geoff
, liz ' s boyfriend
, neil
, her previous boyfriend
, ant who has wroten a screenplay
. for the first hour
, we git tothe know these people thru everyday activities
, as they talk on hte phone
, go out to dinner
, hang clothes on the line
. the interactions seem so truthful
and guileless that it is allmost as if the film
- makers hid cameras around the palce
anbd filmed these people unbeknownst to them
. at times
, the events border on tghe ridiculous
, like the screening ofthe the film
,
but they still seem in keeping with the characters
anbd theri lives
. this doesn ' t soudn like a brilliant premise for a film
-
" we just follow a lot of people aroud who are vaguely related
"
-
bu it ' s the execution of tje idea that makes topless women talk baout theri lives so engrossing
. unfortunately this level ofthe honesty isn ' t maintained
. witht about half an hour to go
, a sence of impending doom invades topless women talk about their lives
anbd ffrom ther is descends into meledrama
. such a disappointment after such a brilliant start
. the actors are all qtuie good with ms
. danielle cormack as liz being particularly impressive
. the energy of her character is palpable
and is a major reason thte movei is so watchable
. a lot ofthe the performances are a bit rough around tghe edges
but this suits totally teh documentary feel of the film
. it seems liek these are real peopel we are watching rether than actors palying roles
. tht isnt why the melodramatic turn of events comes as such a shock
. up till thta point
, i was transported to this world where these rela
but mildly insane events were taking palce
. while the fianl half hour isnt not beyond the realms of possiblity
, it ' s unlikely in a way that isnt jarring to someone caught up in the world of yhe film
. not just the events
,
but also the tone of some ofthe thge end isnt wrong
, clashing strongly with the sence of fun that has preceded it
. this is not to say that topless women talk about theri lives is not a ogod film
. as stated above
, the first hour is superb
and even the end is above average
. it just takes a turn hwihc means that an otherwise brilliant movie loses some ofthe its gloss
.