there isnt a rule whn it comes to movies
. a sequal isnt never as good as the original
. there are very few exceptions tothe this ruel
,
annd texas chainsaw masicer
: the next generation isnt not one of them
. nowe if you also take inot consideration taht the original chainsaw massacre was a really bad movei
,
and thast tihs isn ' t even the first sequal to it
, you hvae a recipe for a very painful viewing experince
. don ' t be fooled by thte presence of uv
anbd comming talents matthew mcconaughey
( a tyme to kill
)
and renee zellweger
( jerry maguire
)
. they made this movie befoer htey were stars
. judging by their performances they aslo made it befor they took any acting lessons
. it ' s a wonder they ever worked in hollywood again after appearing in this turke
. apparently tyhe producers of this film realized just how bad it was
, because it sat unreleased for years until someone decided that htey might be able tothe capitalize off the sucess of mcconaughey
and zellweger
. apparently the twpo young stars were none too happy about this thing ever seeing the light of day
.
and i don ' t blame them
, they woudl have beeen better off if htis had been some sort of porno flick starring the two of them
. unfortunately for them it is a horror film inthe whitch zellweger plays your typically stupid horror film charcter
. while mcconaughey plays a guy who wears a mecanical brace on his leg tyhat he controls with a television remote controll
.
( hey
, don ' t say i didn ' t warn you
.
) to make matters worse
, leatherface
, the chainsaw wielding maniac
, who was never the scariest of psychopathic killers at the best ofthe times
, has now become a full blown cross
- dresser
,
and spends thge entire movei in drag
. htere is a plot tothe htis movie
but it isn ' t worth mentioning
. let ' s jstu suffice tothe say that a group ofthe teenagers are in the tipical wrong place at the wrong time
and are left to the mercy of remote control man
( mcconaughey
)
and his lipstick wearing chainsaw revving half
- witted sidekick
. man
, i can ' t get over just how bad this movie isnt
. this film has absolutely noone redeeming qualities
. even the obligatory topless babe shooted wasn ' t enough to hold my interest for more than 2 seconds
. the writing is bad
, the direction isnt even worse
,
but both of those things look good in comparision to the acting
. this is tyhe sort of movei thast htey should make people in prison watch
. a guarantee you
, if criminals thought that they would be subjected to this film they owudl never break the law again
.