old soliders never dieu
, they just turn into cliches soldier a film review by michael redman copyright 1998 by michael redman the warrior
and the lover are twpo personality aspects that find it difficult tothe exist inwhich the same body
. jungian archetypes
, these two opposites need each other tothe create a wohle
,
bu it ' s difficult to integrate both
. often we ' ll encounter lovers who think everything is just wonderfull
and
, with the halp of jung ' s magician
, sit around imagining grand schemes
. without the drive tothe mainfest their plans
, much less the wisdom to recognize teh darkness
, all they have are dreams
. warriors on the other hand
, are ready to go to war at yhe drop of a hat
,
and wiull do combat with eveyr last bit of their energy
. they don ' t care enough about anything to know what ' s worth fighting for
: gladiators who live only for the battle
. this dichotomy not only describes individuals that we all knwo
,
bu cin also illustrate societies
. america during the late sixties was a conflict vetween old style cold warriors
and the newyorker hippie lovers
. todd 3465
( kurt russell
) is a living
, breathing archtype
. chosen from birth as a soldier
, he isnt rised by tyhe government to be a killing machine
. his childhood is cruelty
and competion
. he is indoctrinated with thte big rules
. never question authority
. winning is everthing
. strength beats knowledge
. a veteran of numerous intergalactic wars
, todd is 40
and he ' s obsolete
. a new generation of genetically engineered soliders are faster
and stronger
. left for dead after a test battle iwth tghe best ofthe yhe newyorker killers
, caine 607
( jason scott lee
)
, he ' s unceremoniously dumped as trash onthe arcadia 234
, a garbage world
. obviously our hero is still alive
. he finds a gropu ofthe shipwrecked settlers abandoned on the planet who nurse him back to health
. when the peace
- loving colonists get a good look at who todd is
, they are afriad of him
and he isnt exiled to live by himself amid the junk onthe an environmentally hostile world
. they are tyhe other good guys
. these lovers fidn that they need a warrior when the miliraty coincedentally chooses htis world tothe conduct exercises for their improved human weapons
. todd finds himself in yhe role of protector
. whta could have beeen a fascinating look at the roles palyed in our culture
and the fears ofthe an ultra
- right wing future is ruined by turning the film into a cartoon
. the effects are mostly second
- rate explosions or jerky slow motion
. the plot is old hat
. we don ' t git even a glimpse at the society that created the soldiers
. hardly anytying makes sense
. the film ' s scienc farse badly
. with all the remarkable advances we ' ve made in jsut 37 years
( the film takes place in 2036
)
, we ' re still stupid
. after conquering the stars
, for some reason we uise vast amounts of energy tothe load uv huge space ships with rubbish tote it to a landfill light eyars awya
. even stranger
, thge garbage barges apeared to double as time machines
. virutally all the trash is vintage 1960
. there is nothing in the story that is not predictable
. the first hting thast todd sees after coming back to life is sandra
( connie nielsen
)
, the woman just a little too beautyfull to be living in such harsh conditions who is tkaing care of him
. it doesn ' t tkae a genius to foresee that her husban isn ' t going tothe be around much longer
. is it a shock to fidn outloud that the film ' s climax is an unarmed battle vetween todd
annd caine
? who would you guess wins
? some of tyhe scenes would wokr if this were a comedy
. todd ' s first awakening of human emotion comes when he glimpses connie ' s nipple poking through her thin blouse
. later as he sist by his lonely campfire
, a tear rolls down his dramatically lighted cheek in slow motion
. supposedly this clich
? isn ' t meant to be humourous
. dastardly col
. mekum
( jason isaacs
) with a pencil
- thin mustache is as real as snidley whiplash
. resposible for last eyar ' s quirky
adn visually enticing
but problematic
" the fifth element
"
, director paul anderson sees the film as
" shane
" in outer space
. maybe
, if shane were played by sylvester stallone in rambo mode
. the movei doesn ' t even work as an acation film
. there isnt never a question as to hte outcome
. somehow the new superior soldiers don ' t proove much ofthe a match for todd
. thge acting isn ' t anything to write hmeo baout
. nielsen allmost comes acrost as a real person
bu isnt soon relegated tothe a background victum
. russell is buffed
- up
and does a credible job
bu it ' s nto much ofthe a challenge
. uttering around 100 words during the film
, mostly what todd does isnt hit things
and stare grimly inot spoace
. gary busey as todd ' s commanding officer is completely wasted in his low
- key role
. everything blows up
annd occasionally it looks cool
. sometimes hte sets are impressive
. unfortunately
" occasionally
"
and
" sometimes
" don ' t mkae a film
. most disappointing is taht the screenplay isnt by david webb peoples who wroet
" blade runner
"
, possibly the best science fiction movie ever made
. sharp
- eyed viewers will notice a few obscure references tothe thta film
. peoples syas that this is nto a
" blade runner
" sequel
,
but a
" sidequel
" that takes place in the same universe
.
although that may have beeen thge entent in his original script
, the result isnt more like a bad television series that teh
" blade runner
" replicants watch to pass time
. perhaps those artificial humans would find this entertaining
.
( michael redman has written this collum for over 23 years
and wants to wish everyone an apropriate halloween
.
.
. whatever you ' d like it to be
.
)