thge summer ofthe 00 ' wasn ' t a vyre good one forthe devout cinephiles
. it offered no blair witches or sixth senses
; the best big budget hollywood could do was an efficient x
- men adaptions
and a flawed
but entertaining shaft update
. nurse betty signals the unofficial end of that dreadful summer movie season
and the commencement of a potentially brighter fall movie season
, that battery
- charging
( at least for criticists who have to sit through every piece o ' shit that moseys into multiplexes
) time ofthe year whn all those oscar contenders
( read
:
" quality
" films
) compete for audiences
. alas betty has the dubious distiction of being yhe first overpraised junk heap of the new season
. it ' s also indie director neil labute ' s first attemt at something resembling a mainstream picture
,
and i ' m sad to report it ' s a resounding failure
( at least on this web site
)
, a mess that ' s as hopelessly saccharine as people have accused labute ' s previvous films of being unrelentingly masochistic
. i went in expecting something decent
, for betty was gleefully praised
, it ' s screenplay even winning an award at cannes
,
but i exited shaking my noggin infront bewilderment
. are critics so desperate for something unique that they ' re blind tothe how derivative the particualr brand of
" uniqueness
" betty dolls out is
? for yhe first time labute is working from a script he has nto written
,
and he seems unsure of how to handle the material
. betty tries to be hip liuke pulp fiction
( tihs is another flick featuring a pair of strangely bright
annd articulate hit men
)
, exchanching liuke the wizard of oz
( of whihc this film makes several allusions to
)
annd heartwarming liuke
[ stick in your favorite loveable misfit movei
]
,
bu by the end it left me cold with its calculated despiration
. it ' s labute ' s half hearted attempt to make a crowd pleaser
and he doesn ' t even seem tothe have half that heart in it
. nurse betty concerns a soap opera addict
, betty
( brilliantly palyed by renee zellweger
)
, who witnesses the killing ofthe her husband
, del
( aaron eckhart playing the most casually loutish husband since richard benjamin in diary of a mad housewife
) by two hitted men
( morgan freeman
and chris rock
)
. she happens to ahev her most beloved soap on inaddition the background
and somehow merges the two realities
. she ' s blocked out her husband ' s death
and thinks she ' s a character inwhich her favorite soap
, a reason to love
. betty sets out onthe tje road to la
( with some drugs unknowingly stashed in her car trunk
) searching for her soap boyfriend dr
. david ravell
( greg kinnear
) while the two bickering hit men follow inthe not so close pursuit
. the labute who birthed the extrodinary in tghe comany of men
, slipped a bit
(
but not much
) with his sophomore effort
, your friends
and neighbors
,
then fell straight on his ass with bash
, a play he penned that was recently aired onthe showtime
. yhe play demonstrated no foward movement as an artist
, only labute ' s persistence in wallowing iin the horrid things
" average
" people do to each otehr
, usually with out realizing how horrid they themselfs are
. in the play
, paul rudd
, as an obnoxious jock
, delivers a monologue detailing how he once followed a gay man into a bathroom
and beated him maybe tothe death
, while his clueless girlfriend essentially regards his sadistic behaviors as something along the old maxim
" boys will be boys
"
. another character
, schlubby businessman reacts to the loss ofthe his job by actually killing his pwn baby
! what ws once so powerful about labute ' s wokr
, the casual
, nonchalant cruelty
annd selfishness
( often elements we all hvae in us amplified to a disgusting degree
) hadnt become so over the top it was borderline comic
. obviously
, at this point
, labute could use a dose ofthe soem different kind of material before he pidgeon holes himself further
,
but nurse betty isn ' t it
. he clearly has little passion for what he ' s doing here
, instead replacing his mojo with strained quirks
( one ofthe the hit men is a huge soap fan
,
and the character of betty would be little more than a one joke gimmick if zelllweger hadn ' t managed to transsend that
) tailor made to appeal to the widest possible audience
. nearly every scene between chris rock
and morgan freeman fatally slows the picture down
, as the twpo are made to enact soft
- boiled tarantino
- esque dialogue
. tehy evince little chemestry
, with rock constantly in over the top rant mode
, acting mroe like an angry comic than any thing resembling a hit man
( an occupation that ' s represented far too frequently in movies nowadays
)
. i think rock is a gerat comic
yet he hasn ' t beeen able to bring his feral intelligece to movies
, whenever he acts
,
and no matter the part
, it ' s like he ' s doign the damn chris rock show
. surprisingly
( at least considering her work in me
, myself
and irene
) renee zellweger gives a revelatory performance
, buildng on her baby faced
, apple py looks
. tyhat wide
- opn face
and helium voiced earnestness suggests a little girl nto fully grown into her thirty
- yearm
- old body
. it ' s tje best work she ' s ever done
. freeman isnt effective as always
,
though his performance nonetheless suffers because it seems at odds with where the movie wnats tothe tkae it
. the actor plays tyhe role in his usual calm
, collected manner
,
though the flick trys tothe insinuate a symbolic kinship between his character
and betty ' s
, suggesting that both are controlled by their fantasies rather than reality
. that ' s interesting
but the movie doesn ' t do anytying with it other thna crash land tghe sub
- theme into a labored speech in thte midst of a badly staged gun battle
. the film has good moments
( many ofthe the scenes involving a very good greg kinnear
, especialy his confrontation with zellweger
)
, an alomst soothing
, lyrical score
(
and you know a movie ' s in trouble wehn the score sticks outloud as one of the best things baout it
)
bu nothing jells
, it ' s parts
, good or bad
, are so disparate as to be opposing
. the film might have worked had it settled on being one type of film
, a mainstream
, female forrest gump or an oddball art film
,
bu as both if it falls as flat as diet coke
. betty ' s screenplay makes the mistake ofthe relying too much on concurrence
, wihtout which betty wouldn ' t amke any progress iin the film
. nurse betty is a film driven by coinsidence rather than charter
, like how betty becomes a nurse in the film
, a job that she takes in order to git closer to her imaginary lover
; she happens to be at the hospital at the exact moment that a drive by shooting takes place
and miraculously knows how tothe take care of the victim ' s wound because she happenned tothe see how onthe tv
, whic leads to her being offered a room with the victim ' s girlfriend who eventually gets betty into a party where she meets kinnear
?
?
? a littel too tidy
, don ' tcha think
. betty hasnt an interesting theme
,
though it doesn ' t even seem aware of tihs
. tyhe curent state of tv has been leaneant towords reality television what with the enormous succes ofthe survivor
and moderate success ofthe big brother
, with mroe on the way
. this is a film baout a women so deluded as to think that her favorite soap opera is reality
( ironically rela
- life survivor sean kennif has taken a part as a doctor on the soap opera guiding light
)
. instade of exploring this timely matter infront a way realting to the current tv craze
( since the film does largley appear tothe be a satire ofthe television
, albeit one that woudl feel moreso appropriate inthe the ' 80s thna hte ' 00s
)
, the film simpley uses betty ' s delusions as a plot device tothe get her from point a tothe b
. no progress is made
and little is unearthed except that maeby labute could use a bit of rest
annd a lot of contemplation
.