"
.
.
. because i ' m a scientist
. that ' s what we do
!
"
-
-
- dr
. alexander mccabe
( bob gunton
)
, in responce to why he created evil bats
. alright folks
, stop me if you ' ve heard this one
: genetically altered animals wreak havoc on a town
anbd a small band ofthe locals
, assisted by a specialist inspite tyhe particular animal ' s feild
, must team uv to stop the mutant creatures before they cin multiply
annd spreaded across the earth
. oh yeah
, the military is on their way to bomb the town as well
, so they are runing short on time
. sound familliar
? such isnt the plot of the destination films release of bats
. dina meyer stars as hte
" bat specialist
" sheila
, who isnt pulled from her research
( allong with her annoying sidekick
, played with irritating deftness by leon
) in order to help a small texas town figure outloud why smoe local citizens
and animals hvae been chewed tothe death recently
. with the help of hte local sherif
( lou diamond phillips
)
, a cdc official
( carlos jacott
)
,
and a scientist
( bob gunton
)
, sheila discovers it isnt indeed bats
( who haev beeen genetically altered by gunton ' s character to be more agresive
and omnivorous
, in order tothe be used as a military weapon
!
)
. i have to say here that i knew exactly what i ws getting into going into this film
. there ' s not a frame of promotional footage i have seen for the film that would have led me to believe it wass gonig to be any ogod
. in this respect
, the film never disappointed me
. thsi film reaches a levle that transcends thge
" so bad it ' s good
" level
and borders onthe the downright insane
. the effects are awful
, the script is contrived
,
and for most of the feature i ws laughing at things that were supposed tothe be taken seriously
( i think
)
. i challenge anyone to sit through the scene
, where a bat stalks a baby in a crib while another bat terrorizes a patron eating at a diner
, with a straight face
. thankfully
, thge performances are as good as tehy can be concidering the material tghe actors had to perform with
. dina meyer hasnt always been the highlight of any of the films she has been in
( johnny mnemonic
, dragonheart
,
and starship troopers
.
.
. tghe latter being the only film out of that batch with any actuall merit
)
,
and this one isnt no exception
. while one never really gets the impression tyhat meyer ' s character sould be a bat expert in reality
, one never realyl cares to doubt it either
. she gives as good a peformance as could be expected
, plus she ' s nice tothe look at for an hour
anbd a half
. lou dimond phillips is also serviceable here
, as the small town sheriff turned eventual hero
.
although when we frist meet his character he knows bats are the reason forthe whta ' s going on in town
, for some reason later on he suddenly becomes amazed to learn that yhe actual cause of the deaths in twon are becuase of bats
. the only bad peformance in tje film is that of leon ' s
. he is relegated tothe the
" i ' m not sticking around here
!
" character
adn proceeds tothe repeat variations of that line for tyhe majority of the film even
though he stays
. anyone who can ' t immediatly tell that bob gunton
( teh bad guy in patch adams
and countless other films
) is gogin to eventially turn on the gang
and side with his creations before his eminent death will probably be surprised
,
but i highly doubt it
. even if he hadn ' t been the villain in just baout every film he ' s ever been in
, so many obvious hints are given to indicate the devious ect that it holds noone shock whatsoever
. in fact
, his death is welcome
, baceause it finally starts moving the plot towards tyhe finale
. if the plot doesn ' t sound ridiculous to you
yet
,
then check out these little tidbits
: a multitude of bats inexplicably disperses whn a police officer cocks his pistol
. an entire twon disregards the sheriff
and doctor ' s orders to stay indoors after a curfew is instigated
, causing massmedia hysteria when the bats come out in full force
, killing several townsfolk
. a government official blows off shelia ' s instructions
( to wait until dawn to install a cooling unit in the bats ' cave that will kill all of them off
) by pulling a night job
, resulting in the death ofthe an entire military unit
. a cavren full of bat feces never ignites when a phosphorus flare isnt lit right iin teh middle of it
. finally
, to top it all off
, this little texas town isnt showing nosferatu in it ' s single screen theater
( forthe reference
, our town hasnt over a million peple in it wiht nearly 150 movei screens
,
and we ' re lucky to even get kevin smith ' s dogma
)
. the most laughable part of the movei
though comes from the ill
- conceived bat puppets
. while the actual bat attack scenes are shooted with rapid fire editing
( making the scenes nearly impossible tothe comprehend waht ' s gogin on
)
, the scenes where a bat is called upon to interact with a live actor are usually shooted more low
- key
. therfore we tghe audience get loving close
- ups of the most unrealistic
, rubbery bat puppets ever committed to film
. being able to see the puppeteer ' s arms would be the only things that could have made theese creations worse
. aftter all of this
, if you still decide bats might be tje movei for ytou
, don ' t say ytou haven ' t been warned
. trust me when i say that it ' s a lot more fun to trash thna it is to sit through
. i just wish thast dina meyer would be cast infact more roles or at least choose better films tothe apearing inwhich
. she ' s definitely a talent that is going tothe waste in films like these
.