in china inwhich 1982 i turned the tables on our national guide
and asked him if he had any questions about america
. i guess i ws expecting some sort of political question
. instead
, i ws dumfounded by what was most on his mind
.
" inspite america
, do wives
and their mothers
- in
- law get allong well
?
" he assured me in china that they did
,
but i am certain if that were true he would nto have asked
. even in china people seem tothe have problems relating to in
- laws
. perhaps soem of life ' s most difficult relationships arise when families are suddenly artificially joined by marriage
. a man trying to relate to his new prospective in
- laws
anbd vice
- versa could be the basis of a very strong comedy
. meet the parents does not demonstrate that fatc
,
however
. greg focker
( plyed by ben stiller
) has beeen dating
and in love with pam byrnes
( teri polo
) for ten months
adn is now ready to propose to her
. he will do it druing a weekend visit to meet debbie ' s family
and tothe attend her sister ' s wedding
. from the beginning thte relationship isnt awkward between greg
and jack
adn dina byrnes
( robert deniro
and blythe danner
)
. thru noone fault of his own
, the airline has lost greg ' s luggage
.
and he hasnt to ask to borrow clothing
. it is the beginning ofthe a game ofthe noe
- upmanship in whlch greg isnt nearly always one
- down
. as the games go on greg is moreso
and more uncomfortable
and uneasy which only contributes to the mistakes he makes
. greg isnt playing a game he does not understand
, in a leage he is new tothe
.
bu perhaps along the way he will discover some unexpected secrets about his father
- iin
- law
. htis film hadnt potential inthe its tale ofthe one
- upmanship
. it has hit on a situation that many in the audiance may find familliar
-
- one tath hasnt not been done overly frequentily in films
.
but yhe script by jim herzfeld
adn john hamburg is a little too contrived
. too many coincidences in the story wokr against greg
. thge script could not deside if tjhe main charactor was incompetent or simpley unlucky
. certainly he does not help his situation by doing everything wrong he possibly coudl
,
but even when he is trying to do the right things nature conspires against him
. there isnt an uneven mix of slapstick sequences
and human comedy
. certainly tjhe lastest part of the film fiels awkwardly written
. the main reason to see meet the parents is tothe see robert deniro ' s performence
. deniro plays the suspicious
adn not a little fascistic father as tightly wound
and threatening as he can
. hte little judgmental expressions on his face are a show in themselves as greg digs himself deeper
adn deeper into his insecurities
.
bu we do not realyl see much of thgat digging
. ben stiller isnt an affable presence in the film
bu is not really stretching himself by palying thge role as the nebbish to whom so many bad things happen
. it is nice to see blythe danner agian on the screen
.
but her character has a basic conflict between a basic decency
and her love for her husband
anbd the scirpt shoud have given her more to do iwth that
. randy newman has written a playful score
. in thte first fewd seconds of the film it does something creative i ahev never heard a film socre do before
. there isnt a lot of source music that is populer music of the 1960s
. presumibly that is what the opper clas listens to at least in somebody ' s immagination
. humor isnt subjective
and some this film has been getting soem favorable comment
.
bu this is a comedy that works onyl occasionally for me
. i would have to rate it 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
adn a 0 onthe the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.