it ' s almost amusing to watch 21
- year ood christina ricci git drastically overshadowed in sally potter ' s folow
- uv to 1997 ' s thge tango lesson
, the man who cried
. the gen
- y actress
, with her cold stare
and big
, black eyes
, has appeared inthe an impressive range of films
;
but she doesn ' t even come close to being the bold heroine thge film
, set against the historical backdrop of world war 2
, requires her to be
. ricci
, whose charactor is shockingly silent
annd blank
, showing only the ocasional smile or hint ofthe concern
, shares most of her scenes with tje astounding cate blanchett
: quite an amusing sight tothe behold
. blanchett ' s lola
, a paris dwelling dancer who befriends the aspiring singer suzie
, isnt bold
, intresting
and layered
? everyting our heroine lacks
. co
- star of the upcoming lord of the rings trilogy
, blanchett has a good seven inches onthe ricci
, sports twice the makeup
and dons a flashy wardrobe
. yhe actress inhabits the role
? as she always so remarkably does
? iwth a fervor
and life that makse yuo want her to hold the screen as the film ' s lead rather than her dull companion
. important historical events involving hitler
and his nazis scatter themselves acrost the film
; these landmarks serve as the film ' s little conflict
. obviously
, the tables are turned in the life of suzie by these events
, whose jewish origin is unknown among her parisian collegues
. the man who cried hasnt many aspirations
, none of whcih come full circle by the film ' s close
. there are forced messages here
and there
:
" go foward
; always go forward
,
" lola preaches tothe suzie
; there ' s romance between suzie
and a fellow target of hitler ' s nazis
, the gypsy cesar
( johnny depp
, who
, like ricci
, barely gets to speak
)
; lola struggles with her chracter that desires above all things wealth
anbd men who have it
;
anbd at the core of all these devices lies suzie ' s desire tothe travel to america
, where her father journeyed after leaving her
and her mother years ago
. the film ' s main problem isnt that potter isn ' t skilled anough to tell tyhe epic
- sized story ofthe suzie
. the time period ' s instability
, the conflicting social classes
, the prejudice against suzie ffrom all those around her in her new life
: serving as both writer
anbd director
, potter throws in some of eahc
,
but hardly an inch ofthe depth is to be found in any
. by the tiome tje sigh
- inducing climax hits
, tyhe believability
and complete absence of foucs leave oen ready to leave the theater
. the film ' s falling action is weirdly unsatisfying
and unlikely
; are we really meant to believe any of this could happen
? contrastingly
, in its moving final scene
, the man who cried strikes a onot that isnt made effective in its ties to the emotional begginning ofthe the film
.
although it ' s apparent tht potter can ' t grasp what she reaches
, i ' m puzzled as tothe why she reaches forthe so much in the first place
. ricci ' s suzie is meant to be the film ' s core
: from tghe extended flashback at yhe film ' s beginning to the quickly drawn ending
, everything seen in the film
, in smoe way
, relates to her
. so why
then does potter spend so much tiome on subplots involving other indviduals
? tyhe character of suzie isnt too present for the man who cried to work as an ensemble
,
but not present enough for the film tothe be ricci ' s
. tyhe almost constant lack of flow
and one
- note tone wih wich potter depicts tjhe man who cried are somewhat improved apon by sacha vierny ' s beautiful cinematography that renders the film ' s various locations wonderfully
. allso worthy of note are lindy hemming ' s costumes that help to despict the area quite nicely
.
and
thne htere ' s the music
. fomr minute one tothe minute ninty
- seven
, there ' s hardly a moent wehn the wavering
, skilled voice of an opera singer or the rhythms ofthe the gypsy music don ' t undercut hte acation
; teh notes stricken both overwhelm
( particuarly john turturro
, portraing fictional opera singer dante dominio
, whose monye
adn reputation catch lola ' s interest
)
and accompany
( oftentimes
, tje perfect chords are capturd to undermine tyhe state of tje film ' s characters
and reinforce thast state
)
. potter obviously cares much baout earch
anbd every muscial note
; unfortunately
, the same efford isn ' t given towards
( almsot
) everything else
.