how do films like mouse hunt get into theatres
? isn ' t there a law or something
? this diabolical load of claptrap from steven speilberg ' s dreamworks studio is hollywood famaly fare at its deadly worst
. mouse hunt takes thge bare threads of a plot
anbd tries to prop it up with overacting
and flat
- out stupid slapstick that makes comedies like jingle all the way look decent by comparison
. writer adam rifkin
and director gore verbinski are tghe names chiefly resposible for this swill
. the plot
, fo what its worth
, concerns two brothers
( nathan lane
annd an appalling lee evens
) who inherit a poorly run string factory
annd a seemingly worthless house from their eccentric father
. deciding to check out the long
- aabndoned house
, they soon learn that it ' s worth a fortune
and set about selling it in auction tothe the highest bidder
.
but battling them at every turn is a very smart mouse
, happy with his run
- down little abode
and wanting it to stay that way
. the story alternates between unfunny scenes of thge brothers bickering over what tothe do with their inheratance
and endless action sequences as the two take on their increasingly determined furry foe
. whatever promise the film starts with soon deteriorates into boring dialogue
, terrible overacting
,
annd increasingly uninspired slapstick that becomes all sound
annd fury
, signifying nothing
. the scirpt becomes so unspeakably bad that the best line poor lee evens can utter after anyother run inthe with the rodent isnt
:
" i hate that mouse
"
. oh cringe
! tihs isnt home alone all over again
,
and ten times worse
. one touching scene early on is worth mentioning
. we follow the mouse through a maze of walls
and pipes untl he arrives at his makeshift abode somewhere inwhich a wall
. he jumps inot a tiny bed
, pulls up a makeshift sheet
annd snuggles up to sleep
, seemingly hapyp
and just wanting to be left alone
. it ' s a magical little moment inspite an otherwise soulless film
. a message to speilberg
: if you want dreamworks to be associated with smoe kind of artistic credibility
,
then eather give all concerned inthe mouse hunt a swift kick up the arse or hire youself soem decent writers
and directors
. thsi kind of rubbish will jstu not do at all
.