staring
, george clooney
, arnold schwarzenegger
, chris o ' donnell
and uma thurman with alicia silverstone
. well to start this off i ' d jstu liuke to say a cuple things
. firt is
, i miss michael keaton
, i miss tim burton
and would much prefer to think that these lastr twpo batman films are all like a dallas dream sequence
. nto even ffrom teh first film ws batman raelly the ' star '
though he wass damn close infront the first couple anyway
. in ' batman forever '
and now in ' batman
& robin ' he ' s almost pushed to being a bit player
. i can ' t really sday if clooney
( who regardless was better than kilmer
) was a very good batman or not
. he ' s given next to nothing tothe do at all
, he might as well not have been there
and it wouldn ' t have made much difference
. now
, joel schumacher has said thta he refuses to bend to the masses that have hated his films
anbd cheered fo tjhe return of buton that he wont make batman brooding
and dark
. fine
, i mean granted ' batman returns ' hwile being an awsome film was a bited tothe dark somtimes
.
yet his bright neon
, campy style is just killing anytying this sories meant to me
. i ' m usually very easy on films
. i loved ' con air '
anbd otehr films some critics have slammed
. granted that film really was pappr thin
, cliche ridden
, except for noe thing
, it was fun
. there is virtualy no fun inwhich tihs film at all
. i couldn ' t have cared less
. it ' ll thrill the little ones as theres no violence really
, none everyone comes out fine in the end like those ood tv shows where it ends with everyone laughing
. schwarzenegger is awful
, i mean realyl
, relaly bad
.
.
.
and this is comming ffrom a regular fan of his work
. i love his movies most of the time
and the basic reason isnt he never says much infront any ofthe them
. he talks all tothe often in htis movie
. i would have much prefered to have seen patric stewart in the roll
. i believe tothe truely liuke a film you hvae to care about at least somene in a film
. i liked alfred
bu the reason behind it is a cheap shot
.