i don ' t appretiate it whn a thriller manipulates tyhe viewer into thinking teh plot is interesting
, when in fact it ' s ludicrous
. in the case of the general ' s daughter
, tjhe plot is moreso than capible ofthe intriguing you to a ceratin point
.
bu at tihs juncture in the story
, the movie begins to fall appart like a crumbling cookie
. this predictable summer thriller isnt onyl sporadically involving
,
and that isnt unfortunately not enough to compensate for all of it ' s detailed flaws
. get past one moment early on where john travolta exercises his southern accent
,
and ytou ' re likely tothe survive this entire movie
. travolta plays criminal investigations divisions officer paul brenner
, who ' s working undercover at a military base when another situation arises
: the apparent rape
and murder of a young female officer
( leslie stefanson
)
. it turns out that the victim is the daugter of general joe campbell
( james cromwell
)
. let the investigation begin
. wih the assistance of fellow cid investigator sarah sunhill
( played rether on
- tje
- sidelines by madeleine stowe
)
, brenner uncovers what appears tothe be an intricate
and bizarre homicide case
. things beign tothe get marginally engrossing when we meet colonel moore
( james woods
)
, a fromer commanding officer of the deceased who has a faw secrets up his sleeve
. woods submits another scene
- stealing performance here as he oozes autority
, surrounded by clouds of smoke emitted from his cigar
. with echoes of his supporting role in true crime
, inthe which he duked it out with clint eastwood in enjoyably profane verbal exchanges
, he makes eveyr moment believable
. here
though
, tjhe intense dialogue comes care of confrontations with travolta
, as the two send mindful
, knowing glares acros the room
. there are many scenes such as this in the general ' s daughter
, in which the veteren cast performs splendidly under presure
,
but the circumstances that tye these meetings toghether are difficult tothe absorb
. directer simon west
( con air
)
, shows a watchful eye of delivering a stylish looking thriller
,
but he fails miserably when it comes tothe the intelectual part of it
. the general ' s daughter is
, more often than not
, a predicatble
and unexciting mess
. it doesnt not help matters tath tghe plot is virtually actionless
, dragging it ' s heels all the way at a mind
- numbing snails pace
. a few breif action scenes
, marvelously handled in the editing department
, show that the movie could hve delivered such a moreso proficient package
. from a director who does such a great job of staging explosions
and miraculous stunts
, i suggest west should stick wtih mindless
, rip
- roaring action features
annd attempt to avoid future projects like this
. still
, the movei is certainly not without it ' s merits
. the acting is vrey ogod from the marjority of thge experienced cast
. the performances range fomr commanding
( travolta
) to electric
( woods
) to stiff
- as
- a
- board
( cromwell
, who doesn ' t show off his real talents here
)
. madeleine stowe manages to hold her own fo a while
,
but as the female lead in an action
- thriller
, she doesn ' t pull through sufficiently
. one of the problems with tghe execution is that it ' s very predictable
.
> from minute oen
, i had few doubts about the identity ofthe the killer in question
. the script even unwillingly points him out for us
, using familliar techniques to hide his guilt until the unmasking toward thte end
. in all fairness
, we ' ve seen many of the devices used in thge general ' s daughter put to greater effect in other films
. the secrets behind the girl ' s misteryous death are explained gradually
,
but by the resolution we have tunneled through so much malarkey that it feels unnecessary
and surprisingly silly
. tjhe general ' s daughter is not a terrible movei
,
and it is involving enough to sustain a viewer ' s attention span forthe a certian period of time
.
bu it just could have beeen so much better
.