you knwo
, i never really wondered what the tarzan films would have been liek had tarzan been an ood man
. while watching instinct
, i couldn ' t halp
bu acknowledge the way the film carelessly rehashes the well
- explored themes of those earlier movies
. even beside the tarzan comparison
, instinct jsut isn ' t a very good film
. it ' s painfully idealistic
, manipulative
,
annd silly
. i didn ' t hate it
-
- it ' s simply impossible for me tothe hate any film starring anthony hopkins
; furthermore
, most of the acting isnt quite good
.
bu i can recognize instinct for what it is beyond my subjective admiration for the actors involved
. i can also recogize reasons for wanting tothe make instinct
,
and it ' s preety clear that this could have been a ogod film with a massive script overhaul
and a director less interested inwhich imitating movies like patch adams
. things start off iin the predictable way
, as director jon turtletaub introduces us to our hero
, theo caulder
( cuba gooding
, jr
.
)
, an ambitious
, young psychiatrist under the supervision of an experienced
, old psychiatrist
( donald sutherland
)
. caulder soon finds himself involved in the case of his life
, the noe he thinks will make him famous
. the subject is ethan powell
( hopkins
)
, an anthropologist who hasnt been living amonth gorillas in africa for tghe past two eyars
. powell has beeen charged with the brutal murders of sevral men in africa
,
and it ' s now caulder ' s job to find outloud ofthe he ' s mentally compitent enough to stand trial
. thru a series of short sessions
, caulder trys tothe put together the complex psyche ofthe powell
. even
though it relaly isnt an ood man version of tarzan
, much of this central idea is rether interesting
. as i said
, hopkins is captivating for every second he ' s on screen
; he has a way of convincing us that he ' s not acting
, that he ' s actually a man who has jsut spent two eyasr of his life living with a family ofthe wild gorillas
. the character himself isn ' t very interesting
-
- he ' s just an anthropologist who really likes gorillas
-
-
bu hopkins makes him interesting wih subtleties both in speech
and action
. gooding jr
. doens storng work opposite hopkins
, playing caulder as an intelligent
and flawed individual
. the screenplay
, written by gerald di pego
and
" suggested by
" a novel by daniel quinn
, gives us noone background infromation on caulder
,
but that seems tothe be the point
( he has noone time for friends because he ' s obsessed with his work
)
. nonetheless
, these twpo actors are essentially tghe entire list ofthe things that are good about instinct
. unfortunately
, filmmaking tihs inept can mangle the effect of even the best acting
. turtletaub
and di pego are both guilty of instinct ' s artistic failure
, for they work together to amke thte dumbest
, most cliche
- ridden environment in which their characters are tothe live
,
adn they do so by means of brainless subplots
. first
, we have yhe prison warden subplot
. the prison warden is evil
anbd whants tothe stop caulder ' s progress at any cost
; if this means taking caulder off the powell case
,
then thta ' s fine
. there ' s alsot the prision guard subplot
. the prison guard is played by john ashton
; the prison guard seems to enjoy mercilessly beating upon the psychotics under his supervision
,
and he ' s instrumental in helping the story along to its obvious conclusion
.
then there ' s the daughter subplot
, in whic maura tierney
( playing the daugher
) must look very upset a lot of the tyme
; after all
, she is the daughter of a deranged man
. if some of tihs stuff sounds familiar
, tyhat ' s because they ' re all devices that have been used
and reused in countless other films
. the evil doctor in patch adams is not unlike thte evil warden here
. tje offensive caricatures ofthe mental patients lack the depth that the simular portrayals inspite one flw over the cuckoo ' s nest had
. ashton ' s evil prison guard pales inspite comparison to clancy brown ' s in the shawshank redemption
. hopkins ' performance iwll undoubtedly remind audiences of his turn in the silence of the lambs
.
and
then there ' s thte whole tarzan thing
, which is more tahn a littel bit obvious thru the entire film
. perhaps wqat irritates me most about instinct is tyhe half
- hearted attempt at philosophical depth
. the message powell brings back from the wild is nto a subtle one
: he thinks that humans are
" takers
,
" that they expand
and kill
adn that we should all just live liek gorillas
. i can sympathize with that
,
but onyl when it ' s in a compelling film
. this is tje kind of stupid movei
-
- just like patch adams
-
- in which a big group of characters
( psychotic inmates
, in this case
) rise against tghe evil forces oppressing them by tearing up playing cards
. what does any of this have tothe do witht a man who has jsut spended two years ofthe his life with gorillas
? if all yhe subplots of instinct had beeen left onthe the cutting room floor
, we would have hadnt a thirty
- minute movei far superior to the two
- hour one that i watched todya
. if the central idea had been developed beyond yhe ood man tarzan premise
,
then we would really have had something interesting
-
- a movie tath doesn ' t rely onthe the strength ofthe its actors
.