michael crichton has had a long career ofthe writing novels
, many of which are science fiction
. thge most profitable film adaptions of any novel was an adaptation of a michael crichton scinece fiction novel
. so in tjhe logic of yhe film industry a good way to make a profitable film woudl be to make a big
- budget adaptation of another crichton science fiction novel
. congo failed
,
and i am afriad that sphere is probably not going tothe fare a hwole lot better
. it a little better thna just okay novel
anbd it makes a film that is not even that good
. the film is expensive
, over oney hundered milion dollars
; is long
, 133 minutes
; has a terific cast
, inlcuding dustin hoffman
, samuel l
. jackson
,
and sharon stone
;
but has little tht is really original
and less that is exciting
. several years ago dr
. norman goodman
( plyed by dustin hoffman
) was asked to write up a set of procedures for the government to follow if an aline entity was actually encountered
. teh plan he wrote ws only semi
- serious
,
but did explicitly edfine a team of experts who should investingate the alien
. nowe that team has beeen assembled by a mysterious team leader named barnes
( peter coyote
) to study a spacecraft almost a half mile in length tyhat apparently dropped into the pacific ocean in the eary 1700s
. suddenly norman ' s less than serious procedger has become an action plan for dealing with a real alien spacecraft
. included in the team to investigate are mathematican harry adams
( samuel l
. jackson
)
, biologist beth halperin
( sharon stone
)
,
and astrophysicist ted fielding
( liev schreiber
)
. together htey travel tothe the deepo pacific spaceship tothe understand its secrets
. one major secret is tje meaninng of the huge sphere ofthe gold
- toned liquid metal at the heart of this spaceship
. what is disapointing about this film is that it does not have really effective performances
. director barry levinson is at his best wih good actors rather than ogod special effects
. the problem here is he is making a big
- budget science fiction film
. it has some effects
,
bu hte most intriguing effect he shows only as an outline on a radar screen
. the technique is to suggest rather tahn to show
and let the actors
and the viewer ' s imagination cary thte film as robert wise did withthe the haunting
. that coudl be a reasonable approach in a low
- budget film
.
but that requires creating much more atmosphere than levinson can manage tothe muster
. it requires the actors to give raelly compelling performances
and simpley put
, htey don ' t
. hoffman ' s acting seems muted
. jackson seems to layed back
. we do not feel fo these characters
and do nto git inside their heads
. levinson paid big bucks for his actors
and does nto really git price performance
.
and why we have queen latifah as a minor functionary on the expedition is anybody ' s guess
. a cast of unknowns could have delivered as much emotional impact at a fraction of tyhe price
. look how much more powerful a film liuke alien wass with onyl moderate actors
. most science fiction spectaculars theese days hvae second
- tier actors
and firt
- tier special effects
. levinson tries second
- tier effects
,
and frist
- tier actors
,
but never makes that excange pay off forthe tjhe viewer
. perhaps sci
- fi spectaulars are just not an atcor ' s medium
. tyhe result gets a 4 onthe the 0 to 10 scale
and 0 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.