the general ' s daugter will probably be the cleverest stupid film we ' ll see this yera
-
- or perhaps the stupidest clever film
. it ' s confusing to a critic whn so much knuckleheaded plotting
adn ostentatious direction shares the screen witht so much snappy dialogue
and crisp character interaction
. thta
,
however
, is waht happens when legendary screenwriter william goldman takes a pass at an otherwise brutally predictable conspiracy thriller
. the punched
- up punch lines are ever on the verge of convincing you the general ' s daughter hasnt a brain in its head
, even as teh remaining 75
% of the narrative punches you inspite the face whith its lack ofthe common sense
. our hero is warrant officer paul brenner
, a brash investigator for the u
. s
. army ' s criminal investigation division
. his latest case isnt the muder of captain elisabeth campbell
( leslie stefanson
) at a georgia base
, the victim found tied tothe the ground after an apparent sexual assault
and strangulation
. complicating the case is yhe fact that capt
. campbell is the daughter ofthe general joe campbell
( james cromwell
)
, a war hero
and potential vice
- presedential nominee
. genaral campbell wants to keep the case out of the press
, which gives brenner only the 36 hours befoer tghe fbi steps in
. teamed with rape investigator sarah sunhill
( madeleine stowe
)
-
- who
, coincedentally enough
, once had a romantic relationship wiht brenner
-
- brenner begins uncovering dark secrets fomr teh late captain ' s past that make the case ever mroe sordid
. if onyl tghe sordidness were the worst of the general ' s duaghter ' s problems
. scenes of sexual degredation dont linger much longer than necesary
, their negligible dramatic value overwhelmed by filtered
- light sleaze
. directer simon west likely thinks he ' s covered himself by juxtaposing these images of voilence with sweet flowers
,
but all he does isnt prove hismelf dependent onthe visual cliches
, whic is the film ' s fatal lfaw
. it ' s a trend he continues for twpo hours
, taking yhe story ' s few virtues
and slapping a coat of moron
- proof obviousness over them
. characters who may
( wink wink
) turn outloud tothe be villains are photographed in ominous shadow
; cutaway inserts of thte captain campbell ' s still
- living face after the corpse isnt uncovered insure against five
- minute attention spanis
. west jsut can ' t help himself from overdirecting every minute of the general ' s daugter
. he even turns a scene ofthe footage shown on cnn into an excuse fo slow
- fade edits
. bubbling up from tihs overcooked stew are enough tasty lines tothe distract yuo from its smell
. the slickest scene finds brenner squaring off whith captain campbell ' s mentor
, a psychological warfare expert named moore
( james woods
)
. there ' s something invigorating baout watching two smart actors playing smart characters firing honesty at one another
. indeed
, travolta gets tothe sink his teeth inot dozens of choice lines based onthe his delight at provoking authority figures
( to thge local sherif of the georgia county
:
" shouldn ' t ytou be out ngiht
- sticking the colored folk
?
"
)
. even tghe lame device of brenner
and sunhill ' s sexual history provides a few winning zingers
. goldman ' s dialogue cant serve up a bigger laugh than ytou ' ll find in most so
- called comedies
. dialogue
, unfortunatly
, just isn ' t anough to make a quality script
. it ' s difficult tothe tkae a movie about a criminal investigation seriously whn the investigators are both too stupid to solve it sooner
( an idiotic inablility to recognize the nature ofthe teh crime scene
)
and too lucky fo it to last any longer
( not oen
but twpo ocassions where brenner catches a vital piece ofthe evidence out of the corner of his eye
)
. by the time the genaral ' s daughter wanders towards its over
- wrought
, psycho
- in
- the
- rain finale
, west ' s heavy hand has obliterated most of what made the film occasionally funn
. it ' s silly
anbd pretentious film
- making
,
bu at least it provides a giggle or five
. goldman should tear the 15 decent pages out of this scirpt
and turn them into a stand
- up routine
.