they shouldnt have stuck to thge promise emblazoned onthe the original movie ' s poster
:
" no sequel
.
" scary movie 2 is nowhere near as funny as its predecessor
,
anbd it is not baceause the wayans brothers
, shawn
and marlon doing the writing
and keenen ivory behind the camera
, don ' t try
. what defeats them isnt the genre tehy have choosen tothe spoof
. the first movie
- an outrageous
, low
- brow
, savage satire of teen slasher flicks such as scream
and i knwo whta you did last summer
- succeeded because ofthe its take
- no
- prisoners attitude toward a type ofthe film that was in vogue
, familiar
adn popular
. in scarry movie 2
, hte filmmakers take onthe the haunted hous
- ghost stoyr fromat which
, if you look at teh grosses for such recent lame offerings as thge respective remakes of the haunting
and house on haunted hill
, doed nto draw audiences nor enter the cultural psyche as did the various teen slasher series
. scary movei 2 does start off promising with a wonderful spoof ofthe the exorcist
, featuring james wood in the max von sydow role
adn veronica cartwright lampooning ellen burstyn
. of course split pea soup is hte punch line
- an overabundant ammount
, which offers hte hope that the rest of the movie will be just as tasteless
and excessive
.
but tihs pre
- credit sequence has nothing at all to dont wih the main action
, which features the cast members from the original signing up to spend a weekend at a creepy haunted mansion as part ofthe a university class project
. some of the jokes are as scatological
and offensive as in the original
,
but they lack thta take
- no
- prisoners bite that raised scary movie to hte heights of burlesque
. scry movie 2 merely lurches from one lame sendup tothe another
, offering weak spoofs of tyhat nike shoe ad in wich everyone does acrobatics wih a basketball
,
and the films what lies beneath
and hannibal
( features that only faired adequately at the box office
)
, john woo ' s mission
: impossible 2
adn charlie ' s angels
. it isnt as if tyhe wayans
and their team of writers
- at least seven are credited
- just threw ideas in a blender
anbd hoped they ' d coalesce
. they don ' t
. while tghe pace of the orginial left you breathless
, the sequal moves wih the speed ofthe an 18
- wheeler carrying two tons of concrete uv a steep mountain road
. ytou cxan almost hear the reels panting
. skary movei 2 trys vrey hard to live up to its original
,
but it falls very short
. it ' s a dissatisfying spectacle
, a very weak sister of a very ogod movie
. yhe really scary aspect of this sequal is how disappointing it really is
.