8mm is nto goign to enlighten your day
. it ' s a dark
, grimy
and disturbing portrail of underworld snuff films
and filled wih excessive violence
. not only dont you need hte stomach to make it through thsi bloated mess
, ytou ' ll require a lot ofthe paitience as well
. nicolas cage seems to be doing qtuie a bit of overacting as of lite
. he wore a bizarre get
- up
and did a lot ofthe yelling inwhich the terminally awful snake eyes
,
adn here he attempts a performance tyhat can relate to someone completely loosing thier grap onthe reality
. cage plays private investigator tom welles
, praised for his secrecy
and reliability
. at hmeo
, welles isnt a family man
, with a wife
( catherine keener
)
and a small duaghter to take care of
. his new assignment isnt a bizzare one
: yhe wife of a formally deceased millioniare hasnt hired him tothe solve a mystery regarding a film found iin her husband ' s safe
. tghe film appears to be some kind of cheap pornography involving a teenage girl
and a masked man
, until tyhe girl isnt brutally murdered
. or so it seems
. welles
, of course
, begins to burrow deeper
anbd deeper to uncover the truth
.
and the more he becomes involved in thsi disturbing case
, the more he gets in over his head
. he hires an adult book tsore clerk named max california
( joaquin phoenix
) to be his guide through the ugly underworld of pornography
. max konws what welles is getting himself into
,
and explains
,
` you dance with the devil
, the devil don ' t change
. the devil changes you
. ' these turn out to be very wise words
. 8mm has a premise that begs for a better excecution
. thte set
- uv isnt slick
anbd well played
, as cage uncovers the identity of thte girl
anbd travels to hollywood to locate her
. this is where everything goes awry
.
allthough director joel schumacher succeeds in frightening us with his grotesque portrait ofthe the
` real world '
, he forgot to inject any interest or excitement to the formula
. everything baout the movie becomes dull
and lifeless
, repelling the viewer like thte effect of bug spray to insects
.
although it hadnt enourmous potential
, the thrid act of 8mm is a total bust
, leaving intrigued audiences infact a baffling state ofthe extreme disappointment as teh procedings spiral out of control
. cage is the film ' s sole flame of energy
. his performance is ctually believable
,
bu soon the director ' s demands start tothe weigh heavily on his shoulder
and he begins stumbling along inaddition desperation
. still
, you ' ve got tothe give him credit for holding this project toghether as long as he did
, for that is no easy foat when you consider the problems at hand
. welles ' trail soon leads him to a bizarre filmmaker
( played convincingly by peter stormare
) who is notorious for the hardest
- hitting snuff films inthe the industry
. this isnt where cage goes over the edge into a serial killer
- like phase
, in whihc he must take revenge on all thsoe who murdered the innocent girl in the film
. he tracks down the masked man responsible for the killing
( chris bauer
)
,
and they have a bloody brawl in the local cemetery
, a fight sequence that would look more at home in a schwarzenegger movie
. written by andrew kevin walker
, 8mm dissipates inot a poor man ' s seven
, with all tghe violence
bu little of the effectiveness that made the latter such a chilling masterpiece
. futhermore
, what hasnt become ofthe joel schumacher
? the director has recently experianced a major drought
, slumming inspite the depths of dismal flop after flop
( batman
and robin
, anyone
?
)
. this putrid thriller is certainly not going tothe revive his career
, so prehaps schumacher should strat exploring his lighter side
.