the onyl two really ogod things that i can say about tarzan
and the lost city are as follows
: jane march wass very cute as jane
,
and the movei wass thankfully under 90 minutes in length
. if you haven ' t lready figured it out
, i didn ' t liek this movie very much
. the plot was boring
adn contrived to thte extreme
. tarzan
( casper van dien
) has now left the jungle
adn living in civilized society
. he is jstu days awya from his impending marrage to jane
, played by tghe aptly named jane march
. back in his former home of africa
, a gropu of looters hasnt foudn the key to locating a lost city
.
( mind you i never relaly figured out why tehy actulaly wanted to fidn this city
.
) anyway
, tarzan ' s old jungle friend appears to him infront a vision
. tarzan realizes that he must return tothe africa to halp stop the bad guys from finding the lost city
. he leaves jane
( his first mistake
, in my opinion
)
anbd travels to africa
. of course
, jane isnt hot onthe her ape man ' s heals
. the twpo of them are reunited in africa where they do battle wtih the bad guys
. soudn like a dumb explanation of the plot
? it ' s acually an improvment over the real thing
. the acting is just plain awful
. i ' m not quite sure whta casper van dien was doing in tihs film
,
but it wasn ' t acting
. jane march wasn ' t a heck of a lot better
,
but at least she is easy on the eyes
. compounding the bad acting was the fact that in many places the dialogue had obviously beeen re
- recoreded
,
adn i ' ve seen better dubbing in soem old bruce lee movies
. added to the sound problems was the cinematography
. this film was filled with beautiful african scenery
.
bu the panoramic scenery shots looked overexposed tothe me
. quite frankly
, i think you coudl probably do a better job capturing the beauty of africa with a camcorder than this bunch doed with professional film equimpent
.
thne we have yhe speshal effects
.
" special effects inaddition a tarzan movei
?
" you are noone doubt asking yourself
? yes friends
, the writers injected some very out of place supernatural elements into hte story
. probablly for tyhe sake ofthe using cgi
, since it doed nothing
but hurt hte story
. in most parts
, htey weren ' t bad
, just nothing special
.
but
, they were moreso than a little on thge hokey side
. except of course
, when we got tothe the rediculous climax of this movie
. the grand finale ' s spacial effects went right inot the toilet at thast point
. it almsot looked like they hadnt run out of money
. these effects were of noticeably lower qualit thna thsoe infact the rest ofthe hte film
and looked like something in an amaeur video production
. i took oen lesson away from watching tarzan
and the lost city
-
- ape men
adn bones that morph inot skeletal warriors don ' t mix
. stay far away from this version ofthe tarzan
.