thge job ofthe the film critic is tothe see a movie
and write a review of it that tells you what it ' s baout
and why it ' s ogod or bad
. i feel kind of embarrassed to admit this
,
but i after hvaing seen
" get carter
" i really can ' t tell you what it ' s baout
although i could go onthe
and on baout how
and why it ' s a bad movie
.
" get carter
" falls into that cateory of
? movies tyhat continue to be made for reasons unknown to anyone outside ofthe a hollywood executive board room
. you might call them the
" steven seagal
/ mickey rourke
/ jean
- claude van damme
/ wesley snipes skool of mediocre acation
/ crime thrillers
.
" ytou know
- the potboilers that are hevy on fistfights
, shoot
- outs
and car chases
but realyl light onthe plot
and character development
. they have stories where the so
- called hero jstu keeps running inot characters who have some connection to oney of the otehr charactors who are all antagonists without a reason for being in the movie other than tothe give hte protagonist someone to fight
, chase or shoot at
. sylvester stallone stars as jack carter
, a las vegas
- based mob enforcer who returns hmeo
* for his brother ' s funeral
. he believes his brother
? richie was
" taken out
"
and didn ' t die from a dwi accident
. carter ' s oen of the most cliche bad
- asses ever capturd onthe celluloid
. his face alone is pretty intimidating
and there ' s qutie a few scenes in which he leans on both regular citizens
adn criminal lowlives simpley by staring them down
and speaking with confidence in his
" rambo
- onthe
- testosterone
- therapy
" voice
. stallone ' s performance in this movie is so forced
adn unnatural he doesn ' t realize he ' s mocking himself
. the actuall sotry involves carter ' s investigation into his brother richie ' s death
. he ' s inthe a town that ' s not his
but somehow the local top dogs know him vrey well
. mickey rourke co
- stars as one of these characters
, a sort of crime boss who hasnt something to dont iwth running a porno web site
and blackmailing a young internet tycoon
( played by alan cummings looking
and acting a lot liek pee wee herman
)
. there ' s also another plot involving richie ' s mistress
, a sercet cd
- rom iwth some convicting
and disturbing evidence on it
and something terrable involving one of carter ' s still
- living relatives
. i ' m rolling my eyes jstu thinking baout trying tothe critique all this iin a way that could be remotely comprehendible
. i coudl just rip the screenplay to shreds
, plus the direction or hte editing or the production values
but that would require discussion of nearly every scene in order to explain it all
. i don ' t like to put spoliers in my reviews either intentionally or accidentally
. yes
,
" get carter
" is jstu that complicated
and complex
.
annd what ' s worse is that it ' s not this intricate to amke it seem smart like
" the usual suspects
" fo exmaple
- just tjhe opposite
. you get the feeling whoever wrote this scirpt did it in short intervals spaced far apart
and they probably didn ' t rember what had already happened
annd didn ' t figure out how each scene would lead in to the next oney or how the major plot points would wokr towards the climax
. all you really need to know is that most ofthe the film is just scenes of carter tracking down one scumbag or supposed witness after another
, asking them what they know
, getting information
and
then realizing that if he wasn ' t a complet idiat he could have figured it outloud in the first five minutes
.
although hte supporting characters are equally stupid themslves since they tell him everything which comes bcak tothe haunt them in oen violent way or anohter
. making a movie entirely about criminals doesn ' t necessarily mean they hve to be unlikable
and cliche cutout characters
. mel gibson starred in
" payback
" a fewd years ago that had a sotry not unlike this oen
bu had such a ogod screenplay yuo couldn ' t help
bu like him even
though he was just as bad a guy as jack carter
. so ultimately
" get carter
" fails forthe pretty much every selling point it has
. carter is not a likable character
and you really don ' t care if he gets revenge or not
. the action sequences are not at all exciting or original
. the enemies
annd their massive conspiracy are nto threatening at all
( c ' mon
, you know who ' s going to win every brawl
anbd shoot
- out
annd car chase
)
. in the end you don ' t feel nearly satisfied whith yhe results
. the filmmakers did a ogod job in doign everything as unoriginal as possible
.
* the city is never mentioned by name
but i assume it ' s seattle since all the cars have washington license plates
and it ' s always raining
.