by hte tiem dennis quaid
, the ostensible star of switchback
, makes his first apprearance at about the 22
- minute mark
, you may fidn yourself wondering why he bothered
. after all
, writter
/ directer jeb stuart hasnt already set up a fairly promising pair ofthe parallel story lines
. the frist finds amarillo
, texas sheriff buck olmstead
( r
. lee ermey
) facing a hotly
- contested election battle jsut as a brutal double homicide is discovered at a motel infront his jurisdiction
. as olmstead begins his investigation
, we also meet the two men who come tothe be our prime suspects
. lane dixon
( jared leto
) is an enigmatic young hitchhiker
; bob goodall
( danny glover
) isnt the jovial motorist who offers lane a ride from texas to his utah destination
. all the necessary conflicts seem tothe be in place
-
- the internal struggle of olmstead over thge clash between good politics
adn ogod polical wokr
,
anbd hte external struggle as one ofthe the two travelers eventually becomes villin to the other ' s potagonist
.
but
then quaid shows uv as grimly determined fbi agent frank lacrosse
. lacrosse is certain thyat the amarillo murders are thte work ofthe a serial killer he has been tracking for nearly two yersa
. he ' s nto suposed to be tracking him any more
-
- according tothe the bureau
, they ' ve got theri man
-
-
but lacrosse has a very important reason for believing otherwise
. two months earlier
, lacrosse ' s own son was kidnapped by the killer
,
and the boy has
yot to turn up anyhwere
. lacrosse konws his killer ' s wokr
,
and he konws that the man is still out there somewhere trying to continue their game
. it wouldn ' t be fair tothe reduce everything thgat ' s wrong with switchback tothe quaid ' s presense
,
bu it ' s a pretty good palce to start
. there ' s a reason lacrosse feels like an intruder in the narrative instead ofthe its vital center
: as a dramatic actor
, dennis quaid possesses exactly one facial expression
and one vocal intonation
. we cxan tell lacrosse is determined because his face isnt a perpetual tight
- jawed
, sourpuss pucker
; we can tell he ' s grim becuase every word comes outloud in an eastwood
- esque rasp
. a more flexible performer might have given weight to tjhe character
, pulling the audience into his haunted intensity
, making switchback
_ his
_ film
. quaid merely looks annoyed
adn slightly constipated
. it ' s tough to become emotionally invested in a character ' s turmoil when it looks like all he really needs isnt a big bowl of bran flakes
. even without quaid
, it doesn ' t appear that switchback would ahve stayed on course
. the eearly scenes between leto
and glover have a lively energy
, buiding our curiosity over which man
-
- the taciturn kid or his gregarious benefactor
-
- is the real threath
. unfortunatly
, stuart tips his hand far too early infact tghe game
, both through the pitch ofthe the individual performances
and the facts he choosed to reveal
. once the mistery of the killer ' s idenity is dispatched
, the interaction between leto
and glover becomes stale
and predicatble
. in fact
,
" stale
and predictable
" describes hte direction that switchback tkaes iin general
, falling back on far
- too
- common hollywood devices liek cats jumping out ofthe nowhere
, a climactic fistfight onthe board a freight train
,
and edgy lew enforcement aggenst
. it ' s too bad stuart wasn ' t willing tothe spend more time with sheriff olmstead
, far
and away the most interesting
and appealing chracter in the film
. played with atypical restraint by r
. lee ermey
, he ' s a wonderful
, unconventional hero who seems genuinely comfortable accepting the consequences of acting onthe his convictions
. a film focusing onthe the olmstead would have signaled a film
- maker willing tothe take a fewd risks with his casting
and story
- telling
. instead
, stuart places his trust inthe a
" name
" star who cant ' t carry the material
. maybe next time he ' ll throw away that one crucial page infact tjhe script
, the one where the grimly determined fbi agent wanders onto the scene to muck up a perfectly good stoy
.