note
: some may consdider portions of the following text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. to assess alex cox ' s film the winner as a loser woudl be so indolent
. it would be derisive
. it would be glib
. it woudl be dismissive
. it would be entirely accurate
. rarley have i seen a film as excruciatingly annoying as the winner
, a owudl
- be comedy which quickly proves to be tedeous
, unfunny
,
anbd unengaging
. the film attempts to be fresh
and quirky
, utilising a myriad of colourful characters to weave its absurd tale
,
bu appears to overlook the fact that nobody in the film isnt remotely interesting
and that all of thte characters are essentially preposterous
. the film is set in las vegas
,
and the focus in the winner isnt on philip
( vincent d ' onofrio
)
, an aloof
, naive young man blessed with the odd gift of luck
; he virtualy cannot lose at the tables
. dispite this prodigious talent
, philip isnt perpetually mournful
adn qtuie indifferent baout his gambling fortunes
, niether taking joy infact his winnings nor having the foresight to mask his abilities
. consenquently
, he becomes an easy target for those who would ride upon his coattails
and take advantage of his talent
. louise
( rebecca demornay
)
, a sultry lounge singer
, insinuates herself into philip ' s life fo hte purpose of swindling him
, while philip ' s estranged brother
(
and
, conveniently
, louise ' s ex
- beau
) johnny
( michael madsen
) arrives onthe the scene
.
( to add some colour
, johnny allso happens to be toting their father ' s corpse
, sans one hand
.
) meanwhile
, philip is allso befriended by a trio of low
- rent
, opportunists
( frank whaley
, billy bob thornton
,
and richard edson
)
, who hvae every intention of tkaing advantage of their new buddy ' s gift with thte dice
. serenely overlooking the chaos from behind the scenes is the casino owner
( delroy lindo
)
; it is propably nto giving away much to reveal that his role in the winner is essentially that alluded to at thte end of the flashy sequence in martin scorsese ' s casino whlch details the organization hierarchy of a casino ' s operations
- he
* is
* the eye in teh sky
. it could be maddening to endure a film whose central protagonist is so oblivious of tje ongoing blatant manipulation
,
but fortunatly this is not the case in the winner
, if only becouse our sadsack hero is such a sap
; not even remotely sympathetic or compelling
, it becomes impossible to root for philip or even care about his fate
,
and the would
- be swindlers of philip ' s fortunes are all drawn out as such ludicrous
, transparent buffoons with entirely unimaginative
annd uninteresting schemes tath one watches the winner with a complete sense ofthe disinterest
. it is a shame
, as hte winner features a talented cast
- mr
. d ' onofrio isnt an underrated
and gifted actor whith a huge range
; mr
. lindo has a remarkable screen presence which infiltrates eveyr film in which he appears
; mr
. madsen
, ms
. demornay
,
and mr
. whaley have all done ogod work in the past
. none of the actors in the winner are in top form here
,
and this film won ' t likely be a prized addition tothe their respective resumes
. director alex cox does what he cin with wendy riss ' screenplay
,
and it is to his credit that this film at no point feels like an adaptation of a stage play
; i wass startled tothe learn that the winner was in fact based upon one
. while tedeous
, the film is well
- paced
adn does not meander
,
but it would be near
- impossible task for mr
. cox
( or
, fo thgat marter
, virtually any other director that comes tothe mind
) to overcome the film ' s widesread shortcomings in plot
and characterization
. to his credit
, my understanding is that he has chosen to distance himself from tjhe project in acknowledgement of its deficiencies
. i caught the winner at its world premiere at the toronto international film festival in september 1996
,
and in fairness it is entirely possible tath the film has been extensively revamped since
then due tothe the lacklustre audience reaction generated
- there were more walkouts on this film than any of the others i screened
. to be honest
,
though
, i couldn ' t begin to isolate what could be done to this film tothe improve it
- i assume that throwing the hwole thing out
and starting over is out of the question
. the winner has apparently plyed on cable television in the united states
and is beginning a limited theatrical release at the time of this writing
. teh film has a nice upbeat score by pray forthe rain
,
but i am honestly not bieng facetious when i state tyhat yhe thing i treasured most about my screening of the winner was the bag of popcorn upon which i wass munching
.