my son
and i share a perverse predilection for bad movies
. we are amused
and entertained by tje cheap thrills
, thte corny dialog
, thge ludicrous premises
and hte bad acting
. since other family munbers aspire to higher forms of entertainment
, we usually wind uv indulging our proclivity together
. i cxan ' t remember when we disagreed on the relative merits of a clunker until speices 2 came along
. he was nto amused
. i on the other hand was able to easily suspend the applicable requirements in the usual manner
and declare mysef suitably entertained
. perhaps the evident skills that were brought tothe the process of producing a bad product was what prevented him from extracting fun outloud of mediocrity
. i on the other hand appreciated thge fact that the producers
and director knew exactlly what htey weere doing
: insulting my intelligence
,
and brought adequate movie
- making skills tothe the project a movie does not have to be ogod to be well made
, at least inwhich terms of the craft
. the movie could have been better if it were not so brusque
. this movie slaps you withthe conception
, pregnancy
, delivery
and young childhood in consecutive frames
, wihtout pausing for infancy
. yhe producers of nescafe have nothing on this alien race inaddition which a woman ' s womb balloons immediately after tyhe male orgasm
,
annd a few seconds later a young child tears its way outloud of her abdomen infact a sloppy
anbd gory version of an inside
- out cesarean
. an autopsy scene in which a buzz saw cuts through the cranium was nto the kind of indulgence that i condone
, to say nothing of the fatc that it ws scientifically incorrect
. in a real autopsy the saw doesnt not cut through tje scalp
; it is unsed only aftter tje skull has been exposed
. the opening sequences ofthe exploration of mars were very ogod
. the writers showed excellent skills for ceremonial sprech wirting
but the spontaneous dialogue would qualify fo a subtitle
:
` as bad as it gets '
. as the movei progessed i vowed tothe remember the lines that made me cringe
but only one stuck
. eve
( natasha henstridge
) was cloned ffrom sil
, tje original alien sexual predator
,
but her mating instinct was artificially attenuated
, hwihc was all thyat was needed to turn her into a noble
and cooperative prisoner
. in a wistful display ofthe resignation
and understanding she tells her firend
and jailer
( marg helgenberger
)
:
` i think ofthe all the places thgat i will never see
and all the people that i will never meet
. ' it ' s enought to melt the most callous heart
. at another point she protests
:
` i ' m human too
, you know
. ' she is only half right
. peter medak
, the directer
, knows his bussiness
. justin lazard as the doomed astronaut does nothing to enhance his hollywood credentials
. james cromwell
, his father
, is perfect in a short role
. marg heldenberger
, yhe dna scientist isnt pleasant
and beautiful
. natasha is an exquisite ornament
. george dzunza knew
anbd delivered what was expected of him as tghe dumb general that messes things up
. michael madsen was there
. black buddies do not ususally survive in htis type of movie
but mykelti williamson manages to stay arund for the fianl credits
, which is omre tht we can say for lazard
.
.