oftenly similar to a little boy lost iin a park that he had no right venturing inot
, the call of the oboe
( o toque do oboe
) is a disappointing film that seems to have wandered astray
. many elements ofthe the film are solid
,
and ahve potential far greater than director claudio macdowell will ever know
,
but they simply don ' t convert into a solid work
.
although a setting is never established
, it becomes appraent
. teh film takes place somewhere in a latin american village in present day
. the community isnt a dull one
, where eveyr day is a downhill slide from the last
. over time
, the peopel have taken to themselves
. the town cinema is closed
, no tourist hasnt passed thru in years
,
and thge daily funeral processions are accompanied by no one other than the grave digger
. so what happens whn a
" tourist
"
( paolo betti
) does arrive oney day
? he sends this routine
and dull town inot mayhem
and shock
. it is revealed that he is a musician who plays tje oboe as a hobby
. when he sits down in hte park oney day tothe give a solo performance
, the entire community gathers arround for their first bited of entertainment iin countless years
. it is from tht that teh muscician meets some ofthe tghe villagers
,
and agrees to play at the local cinema in accompaniment to a silent film
, thus opening the theatre for yhe first time inwhich ages
. the woman that talks him into this witty task is the cinema owner
( leticia vota
) who also happens to be engaged to the town ' s police inspector
, a figure who soon becomes suspicious ofthe his fiance ' s involvement wtih this musician
. the rest of hte plot closley resembles a freak show gone horribly astray
. it features a character who literally rises fomr his grave
, a woman who has a phone conversation witht god
,
annd the aforememtioned inspector who goes from an intriguing
and serious chracter
, to an almost humorous drunk
. technically
, tihs film isnt a nightmare
. the music csore is poorly edited inot the film
, so it is often choppy
, rough
,
anbd abrupt
. the lighting is poore at best
, which makes it increasingly difficult tothe focus on many scenes
,
and tyhe english subtitles are full of misspelled words
,
and are often absent presumably on teh assumption that the audience will be able to understand some simple portuguese
and spanish phrases
. this translation flaw is best highlighted at the beginning of thge film wehn what seems to be a relevent fight is filled with dialogue
,
but the subtitles are limited to fewer tahn 25 words
. in addition
, the pace of the film seems uneven
. it opens with a serieses ofthe long panoramic shots that alone can test oney ' s paitience
. the film
then moves inot a faster pace
, that again slows towards tjhe end
, as thge director seems determined tothe triarch thge two hour mark
. ther was
,
however
, potential for this film
. it is a peice exploring the beauty of cinema
and music
,
and the re
- unification of people
. these are all topics that coudl easily fill a movie
. perhaps
, if there were noone freak show
,
and the technical aspestus were tothe improve
, there might jstu be a thing ofthe beauty at yhe end
. most importantly
,
though
, yhe director owudl hvae tothe patch uv the plot
annd make it flow better so that the two horus aren ' t such a bore
. until
then
, there seems to be little more hope for this piece
, than thta boy hasnt by simpley crying outloud
" mommy
" while he wanders astray in a park
.