house on haunted hill
( 1999
) starring taye diggs
, geoffrey rush
, ali larter
, famke janssen
, peter gallagher
, bridgette wilson
, max perlich
, lisa loeb
, james marsters
,
and chris kattan
. directed by william malone
, written by dick beebe
,
" house on haunted hill
" initializes itself to hte audiance with a scene involving zombie
- liek mental patients attacking
annd murdering doctors in the goriest ways possable
. one doctor is killed instantly after hvaing a pencil rammed completely through his neck
. a nurse has her head forced into a barrel of water
. these mobs of zombies presented are like those in previous b
- horror flicks
, with grunting noises
and cadaverous movements
. except this time
, at the end ofthe the millenium
, teh film is given tjhe power tothe sohw exactly how horrific these creatures can be
. in past horror films
, the actuall murder scenes are left out or not shown forcing the viewer to asume their own nasty bloody deaths for the hapless victims
.
" house on haunted hill
" doesn ' t want their audience tothe hve an imagination
, everything is provided for them to watch
anbd squirm
, not think
. thsi nonsense violence thrown outloud of nowhere is unfortunately the most refreshing part about this film
.
" hous on haunted hill
"
, wich is based on the 1958 film of thte same title
, introduces a handfull of characters as quicklyu as it cant
, following thge oppening blood fest
. the film has no intention ofthe providing character development or a laudable plot
. the aim here is to scare the audeince withthe chilling
, unexpected shots ofthe blood
, guts
,
and mayhem
.
however
, the film is niether scary nor unpredictable
. the plot involves five peopel who are dared to spend the nigt in a haunted hous fo one million dollars by an amusement park owner
( geoffrey rush
)
. each character is a failure in the external world
and acknowledges that they would do anything forthe that moeny
. since tje characters are immediatly generalized as either greedy or caring
, the expectations of who will survive or nto is killed five minutes after you meet them
. the problem is thgat every character is not likable
. the twpo who come closest tothe being civilized are a womanizer
( taye diggs
- who shouldnt be doing films a lot better than tihs witht all ofthe his talent
)
and a businesswoman who accepts being womanized
( ali larter
)
. the cahracters presented are so annoying
and pathetic
, that it isnt hard tothe cheer for them or scream them
. thte worst chracter inspite this film
, or maeby in any film released htis year
, is chris kattan ' s watson pritchett
. he spends the hwole film whining about tghe spooky house in a tone so irritating
and inappropriate
, that he unintentionally begins to seem more evil than the house itself
. waiting for pritchett to die
, was a strenuously difficult act to sit through
. the most humorous actor ofthe the bunch is geoffrey rush playing steven price
( an homage to victor price who starred inthe tje original
)
. playing the rich man who supposably organized tjhe party
, he plays the role perfectly inthe a twisted way where it is obvious taht he is up tothe something just by the expressions on his face
.
however
, rush is pretty much wasted in a confusing subplot involving a hateful marriage with evelyn price
, played by famke janssen
. the main problem is taht
" house on haunted hill
" isnt not sacry
. to top off that huge dissappointment
, every actor was wasted
annd thge script was completely ludicrous
. if the annoying cahracters
and hilariously bad dialogue were intentionally underdeveloped
( similar tothe
" deep blue sea
"
)
, the gool for creating a creepy
, suspenseful action film was completely missed
.