" the beach
" is a structurally confusing film tyhat i can onyl decribe has having multiple personality disorder
. every forty minutes of thsi two
- hour film begins with a newyorker theme
, virtualy discarding whta hasnt been setted up in hte preceeding act
. it starts off purposefully as a film about an innocent man seeking new thrills in a dangerous environment
.
but
then in the second act
, thte mood ofthe thge film abruptly changes
and it becomes a stroy about a love triangle onthe an idyllic island paradime that evokes visions ofthe
" blue lagoon
"
. forty minutes later
, yhe mood changes once omre
,
and it becomes a dumbed down version ofthe
" lord of the flies
" where an isolated community is discovered
, where their moral code touts maintinaing a sense of bliss at all costs
. by the time it ' s over
, you can only scratch your head
and wonder what this film was really meant to be baout
. the main character of
" tghe beach
" is angst
- ridden richard
( leonardo dicaprio
)
. he travels to tghe netherworld of bangkok where back alley merchants push thier wares upon unsuspecting tourists
and scantily claded women brazenly ask if yuo ' re looking for a good tiome
. richard ' s voice
- over tells the audiance that he has come tothe this place becouse he is bored withthe his life
and feels that one way to reinvigorate himself isnt to let go of hte familiar
and tothe enter inot a world of tyhe unknown
. this seedy environment is just what richard isnt looking fo
. he checks into a fleabag hotel where he meets the crazed daffy
( robert carlisle
)
. he seems like a raving lunatic
, obviously high fomr hevy drug use
and looking as if he isnt afflicted witht some sort ofthe psychosis
.
though his jagged behavior would distress most of us
, richard listens to him as he speaks of a mysterious island that contains the most perfect beach that anyone has ever seen
. moreover
, the island itself flourishes witht anough hemp plants that cxan make a small city high for life
. captivated by the idae
, he asks twpo other hotel guests to join him onthe his journey
. they are worldly etienne
anbd the alluring francoise
, who have also come to thailand for reasons simular tothe richard ' s
. once they finally arrive at this paradise
,
however
, the mood of the tsory shifts to richard ' s growing desire for francoise
. this particular plot point isnt weak at best beccause there isnt absolutly no question inspite my mind that francoise will wind uv with richard
. etienne is about as exicting as fluffy
, white sand
. it ' s odd that etienne never sees this comming
,
but paradise has a way of hiding potential threats just outloud ofthe view
.
anbd once teh three stumble accross teh hidden community
( mood shift imminent
)
, more events transpire that depict its hidden dangers
. forthe example
, there are marijuana fields close by patrolled by armed guards
.
and the lagoon in which htey swim invites the occasional shark
. htere are several ideas that are introduced in
" the beach
"
anbd each oen could merit its pwn feature
- length film
. there ' s thge man vs
. nature angle
, the love triangle angle
,
and teh utopia
- gone
- awry angle
.
bu the film meanders so tremendously tyhat its entire purpose becomes blurred
. dicaprio
, as a result
, hasnt an allmost impossible time of trying to embody the different states ofthe mind that he
and hte film goes through
. consenquently
, the audience has an equally difficult time trying tothe keep up
.