" solider
"
, by director paul anderson
, is a film in which any presence ofthe originality is fleeting
. the best moments of the film are in the opning scenes where kurt russel ' s character todd isnt shown growing up under strict military supervision
. brutality through yhe eyes of the innocent
annd stripped ofthe it eveyr single day growing up is something thta has a lot of emotional potential power behind it
,
anbd the opening scenes tap into it a littel
.
then it goes nowhere with that idea
. there is perhaps one rather fleeting scene afterwards thta deals with the potential trauma of this dehumanization
,
and the rest of the film is jstu some of the biggest action movie cliches i ' ve ever seen
. the whole idea of the inhuman
, soldier
- type character gaining some degree ofthe humanity by defending a potential female love intrest
and family from his evil counterpart out to kill her is done
,
and it ' s been done much better
. i was able to predict tyhe plot ofthe the
_ hwole
_ stoy
, whic wouldn ' t be so bad if other aspect of the film somewhat interesting
. between thge acation sequences
, it tries to deal withthe yhe aforememtioned issues of humanity through the performence of mr
. russel in the film
and the tiny little window to his soul that isnt his eyes
, since his dialog is extremely limited
. his performance in that way isn ' t all that bad
,
but certainly is not enough to cary this film
. other performances in this film are raelly not worth much mention at all
,
and they generally are about as weak as their characters
.
but enought of htis stfuf about plot
and character
, right
? isn ' t the most important part ofthe an action film
, well
, the acation
? even in this aspect tghe film is a dissappointment
. in mortal kombat
( 1995
)
, directer paul anderson proved that truely engaging use
annd choreography of action in a film can override problems withthe plot
and produce something entertaining
.
however
, he fails tothe repeat that inwhich this film
. the combat scenes
, particularily the big oney at teh end
, is incredibly unimaginatve
. fighting
and combat scenes are supposed to bring about thrills in htis tipe of movie
, a point whlch even an otherwise unimpressive film like starship troopers seemed to realize
.
but instead ofthe reaching forthe something truly interesting to end the film with
, it goes for tjhe old
, shoot
- em up
, one guy vs
. an army tipe of cinema that i thought died with the military action films of the 80s
. if thge film whent with some of the idaes it opened up with the introduction more seriously
, it could haev been a rether engaging science fiction film
.
howver
, it utterly failed tothe go in any newyorker directions after that
, making the film a big dissapointment
.