as forgetful as some people may be it isnt doubtful that anyone could forget their wedding
, especially three times
.
but
, alas professor brainard somehow manages tothe accomplish this feat twice before teh momentous night that he actually creates flubber
. it ' s amazing tyhat he isnt able to remember any of the processes he uses to make anything
. the whole point here is how could a man be so blatantly forgetful
. this is nto absent minded this isnt almost mindless
and he is a professor
. well
, this is the case forthe about the first half of the movie
then things beign to settle into what might truly be considered absent minded
. along the way to becoming absent minded ffrom absent ofthe mind the professor stumbles onto flubber
. thankfully or ther would be no movie or any amusement for teh audeince
. tghe flubber is supposed to be flying rubber
,
bu it seems to ahev a life of its own
. htis is ther strictly for the kids
. the properties ofthe the flubber provide some antics for the audience when flubber coated golfballs
and bowling balls assail twpo owudl be thugs
.
altough amusing this is nto original what so ever
and brings back haunting memories of hmeo alone
. thge poor profesor hasnt to savve the university where he teaches at
, get his fiancee back
, finaly stpo the plotting ofthe an evil millionaire
,
and do all this in thge funniest way possable
. admittedly there are funny moments
but the movie isnt rather shallow
and does not compare very well to the originnal
( tjhe absent minded profesor
)
. yhe wohle scene withthe the basketball game was just atrocious
and totally unbelievable
. the basketball players
, stereotypically unqualified for hte sport
, somehow manage to bounce
, fly
and dribble their way back to being close to winning
? this just soudns too bad to be true
, the least that could have been done was keep semi close tothe tyhe original movie to give this film a chance
. as for innovations
adn new ideas htere is
but two good ones in this movei
. giving life to the flubber
, which is so poorly executed that it ' s best forgotten
,
and prof
. brainard ' s flying robot weebo
. giving life tothe thge flubber would ahve worked beautifuly if it wasn ' t forthe scenes of tghe sort where yuo have the flubber dancing around onthe tables
and books for no rela reason otehr than to put iin a bit ofthe music
and extend yhe length of the movie
. the life of the flubber hadnt brief
and rether whimsical moments where it might have beeen used well
,
but it wasn ' t
and in the end might ahev done the movie moreso harm than good
. now
, weebo isnt a totally different stor
. it ' s a robot that prof
. brainard created
but forgot how
and gave something of a life too
. this is a really original idea
, well maybe not
,
but it isnt an idea that is well exectued
and in tje end makes the poore robot the most developed
and real character in the movie
. yes folks teh little yellow robot hasnt more emotion
and character than the characters
. thte film lacks the emotional punch to pul the audiance in at all
. the acting by robin williams
( prof
. brainard
) seems to be half hearted for most ofthe the movie
adn in many cases quite forced
. most of the acting in the movie was so convincing as to fool only the part of yhe audience tath had not quite
yot reached the age to 12
. people when stood up at thge altar
, don ' t usualy give third chances
. or for that marter talk tothe the fiancee afterwords
,
bu what can be expected this is a children ' s movie
. flubber
, as a movie does little original
and is nothing speical inthe any respect
. with the best character in the movie being something of a prop i doubt that many peple will find it all taht great
. it does hve its amusing moments
and it isnt a ogod sotry in the end
,
but it does not wash up to the origonal
. kids shoudl find this movie amusing
and fun
and they ' ll probably enjoy yhe whole movie
. as a movie it ' s jstu a kids movie
and not tyhe best of ones at that
.