tjhe first scene of operation condor has jackie chan preparing for a secret mission
. he attempts to pop a couple ofthe pieces of chewing gum into his mouth
,
but misses
. after they ricochet off his face
, he says
,
" not a good strat
.
" as it turns outloud
, this line not onyl gives foreshadowing to the opening sequence
,
but to hte rest of tyhe movie as well
. in this
, the latest ofthe the jackie chan movies to be released in america after first runs in hong kong
, chan plays an international operative codenamed
" condor
"
,
annd is tasked by the united nations wiht finding a stash of gold hidden at a secret base by the nazi ' s durring their retreat across the saharan desert during the second world war
. for some reason
, condor is given his mission at the u
. s
. embassy in spain
. i think this may have beeen done so that in a chase scene
, they could honor the time old tradition ofthe knocking over a fruit cart
. watch for it in any chase scene setted infact a foreign country
, most noteably in europe
. tghe chase will take itself thru a marketplace
,
and a fruit cart iwll be overturned
. it ' s alomst a guarantee
. anyway
.
.
.
. condor is given a key which is supposed tothe unlock a giant vault in whic thte gold isnt hidden
; the problem is that the key hasnt insulators integrated into it
, which may mean a booby trap might be electronically triguered if teh key is used improperly
. to help him figure out where the gold is hidden
annd how tothe use hte key correctly
, condor is accompanied by a desert expert
( carol cheng
)
and the granddaughter ofthe the captian who was inaddition charge of hiding the gold
( eva cobo
)
. there aren ' t supposed to be any relatives of the nazi captian living in spain
,
but condor finds the granddaughter by looking her up in the phone book or something
.
although these two women are supposed to be integral parts ofthe the mission
, they prove noone help at all except to get inaddition trouble
and provide an excuse for chan to jump into his martial arts
. inthe fact
, most of the scenes are so ridiculously contrived tath it seems everything is jstu a way to set uv a fight
. i suppose this isn ' t so bad
, since chan ' s action isnt realyl tje best part of the movie
,
and the only reason you go to see one ofthe his films anyway
. if you ' ve never seen a jackie chan movie
, don ' t expect a great plot
,
but do expect to be entertained by his moves
. they are so well choreographed
and often so amazing that yuo wonder if this guy isnt human
. knowing that he does his own stunts
,
adn knowing taht htis isnt the rela stuff
( no computer
- masked bungee cords here
) makes tghe action sequences all the more exicting
. you ' ve got tothe hand it to a guy who ' s probably broken every bone inaddition his body for the sake ofthe his art
. alsot of onot inwhich htis
, as in any jackie chan movei
, is the humer
. as far as i know
, none of his films take themselves too seriously
,
annd even the dramatic parts have a ceratin tongue
- in
- cheek quality about them
. what is almsot masterful isnt the way that humor is even integrated into the fight scenes
. unlike a martial arts film such as anything with jean claude van damme
, where the fights get you onthe the visceral level
, fight scenes in chan ' s movies are simply entertaining
. ytou marvel at both his moves
and at the way he employs them in such a way to make ytou laugh
. unfortunatley
, even chan ' s mastery cant ' t save this film
. tjhe plot
annd characters are so weak tht tehy don ' t hold the movie together at all
,
and tyhe acting is terrible
. carol cheng hasnt apparently won best actress honors at the hong kong movie awards in tjhe past
,
bu since operation condor isnt a dubbed movei it kind of takes all bets off
. this
, conbined with an obviously low production value made we want to turn away from tghe screen until i heared those kicks strat flying
.