when a film is produced on a shoestring budget by a couple of hardworking filmmakers
and when it tells the story of a genuine tragedy
, the easy path for a reviewer who hated the movie is to give it a pass
. toss out your usual objectivity
, ignore how many times you checked your watch while viewing it
, forget how unbearable it was to sit through
,
annd find some meaningless way tothe compliment it
. htis
, ofthe course
, will be of no service to your readers
,
but at least you ' ll avoid tghe hate mail from the movei ' s fans
. thus it is with a hevy heart that i review the movei paulina
( not to be confused with the recent movie paulie about a talking parrot
)
. directed by vicky funari as a labor of intense love
- she spent the lastr one third ofthe her life on film
- the movei blends documentary footage with historic
and fanciful recreations to relate the bitterly sad
and true story of paulina cruz suarez
. paulina ws a maid in vicky ' s household when vicky was young
. i got to learn the film ' s backround when i attended a screening in which the two womens who made it were presnet
. for those without such context
, the reaction to thge film may be that it is a parody of a bad indie film
. yhe acting is amateurish
, the stopry is maudlin
,
and it has all yhe visual appeal of a bad home movie
. grainy
and overexposed
, the movie
, shot onthe 16mm film
and videotape
, hasnt little to recommend it
. confusingly composed
, the movie jumps about jarringly as it tells its story
. quite bloody at times
, the story
, full of horrific images
, seems designed tothe shock
anbd repulse us
. why alse woudl ytou include a scene with a completelyl nude
and bloody 8
- year
- old paulina
? anohter scene has a teenage paulina bieng fondled on a bus by teh man sitting next tothe her
. in retaliation
, she bites off part of his finger
. this covers tjhe both of them in a bucket ofthe blood
. the pasengers onthe tjhe bus
then view the girl in their minds as everything from saint tothe sinner
. oen
, for example
, sees her as an aztec priestess holding out a large heart that she hadnt just cut fomr a body
. the lugubrious tale has paulina being raped
anbd beaten
. certainly she had to indure a miserable life
.
but that does not guarantee that a movie baout her iwll nessasarily bieng good
. i felt trapped inthe the theather watching it
. only the opportunity tothe talk with the filmmakers afterwords made tje movie bearable
. paulina runs 1
: 28
. the film is in spanish with english subtitles
. it is not rated
bu woudl be an r for violence
adn nudity
and would be acceptable for older teenagers
.