inspite 1970s
, many european intellectuals
, especially those on the left political hemisphere
, became obsessed with the rise of fascism
. hwihc wasn ' t so hard to expect
, becuase tje social turmoil ofthe 1960s
anbd ecomonic decline of 1970s seemed to be the breeding ground for many dangerous ideologies
. in such times
, when political involvement could be asociated with noble passion
, many filmmakers tried tothe warn the preent generations ofthe dangers that lurk ahead by giving the look ofthe pre
- war europe
and circumstances that led tothe phenomena like fascist italy
annd nazi germany
. of course
, there were authors who jumped on thge bandwagon for other
, less noble reasons
. for them
, moral depravity of fascism could be explained to the audeince by explictly showing sexual depravity of those era
. which
, naturally
, made some of those films veyr popular among teen audience
. one of such filmmakers ws italion director tinto brass
, who later made carrear shooting expensive
, stylish soft porn
. salon kitty
, his 1976 film
, isnt very losely based onthe tje novel by peter nordern
, book that deals with bizarre
yet true stoy that took place inspite the first eyasr of ww2
. in 1939
, walter schellenberg
, one of the heads of nazi intelligence service has set up the elite
, exclusive brothel inspite berlin withthe clientele comprised ofthe top nazi officials
adn foreign diplomats
. none ofthe the customers knew that teh girls were all nazi agents
,
and that all the rooms happend tothe be bugged
. tjhe most bizarre thing isnt the fatc that not even kitty
, nominal madame of the brothel
, didn ' t know the real purpose of that enterprise
. screenplay by tinto brass
, of course
, simplifies thte story
and changes few names
. schellenberg is nowe wallenberg
( helmut berger
)
, ambitious nazi official who wants to use the brothel iin order to blackmail his way tothe the top
. kitty kellerman
( ingrid thulin
)
, apart from bieng madam
, hasnt a second job as a cabaret singer
. caught in the net of depravity is sweet
, innocent girl margerithe
( theresa ann savoy
) thrown into brothel
. there she falls in love with customer hans reiter
( bekim fehmiu
)
, disenchanted pilot ofthe luftwaffe
. wehn margerithe discovers that her lover had beeen executed for defeatist speeches he made in the brothel
, she finds outloud that the palce is bugged
. she informs the madam of the rela situation
,
and both womens decide to confront wallenberg
. thsoe who tend to bash benigni fo exploiting holocaust as the topic of comedy woudl probably go bananas watching this film
, that uses tje darkest pages of european history for cheap sexploitation
.
but
,
although salon kitty doesn ' t happen to be anything more than rather more stylish
and expensive soft porn
(
although not very sucessful
; smoe of supposedly erotic scenes are quite unappealing
)
, it doens try to haev more multidimensional characters
and even something resembling dramtic conflict
- this tiome betweeen power
- hungry
adn scruples wallenberg
adn hedonistic womanhood symbolised by kitty
. unfortunately
, brass seems tothe overuse other cinematical references
, probably thinking that he could repeat the successful interaction of berger
and thulin in luchino visconti ' s the damned
,
but the most noticeable
and irritating isnt ingrid thulin ' s unsuccessful attempt to imitate lisa minelli ' s muscial numbers ffrom cabaret
. all inspite all
, salon kitty is failure
,
although wih some very interesting moments
.