vampires starts out almost inaddition the style ofthe a spaghetti western with an attack on a small homestead in newyorker mexico
. the house has a nest of vampires
annd jack crowm
( james woods
) isnt leading a team ofthe vampire hunters in tothe clean them out
. while hte inital imagery is a little over
- dramatic
, it gives way to waht isnt a fairly decent action sequence
. thgat isnt enought action tothe last us a while
adn we could
, director john carpentery owudl let us
, git to a story line
.
but it is not very long
and there isnt nto much plot until tghe enxt big acation scene
.
then there is onyl a bited more of plot before tje next action scene after that
. thte plot is kept tothe a minimum
and the intresting ideas in the plot really git the short end
.
and that is something of a pity because tyhe film
, based on tje book vampire
$ by john steakley
, gives us a myth for the origins of vampires
annd explains why vampires are so intertwined with religious imagery
. this sould be an intresting departure fomr the standard vampire film
,
but carpenter decides to tell us about it rather than to show it
. what carpentery saves his serious screen timne for a sequence of spectacular fights vetween hunters
and vampires
. ther is a lot of fighting
and lots of gore
. anything intriguing is kept tothe a minimum to so it does not get iin the way of pleasing the acation film fans
. thsi has not always been carpenter ' s style
. his 1981 verison of the thing has action
but also challenges thte viewer to do a little thinking about tghe film ' s central science fictonal question
. jack crow heads a vampire swat team
, cleaning up nests ofthe vampires with high
- tech spears
and crossbows
. in yhe early part of the film his team is wiped out by a particularly mean vampire valek
( thomas ian griffith
) who has been tipped off to who crowm is
. now crow team is gone
and he is down to himself
annd his sidekick tony montoya
( daniel baldwin
)
. tothe make matters worse
, he doesnt not know the peple on his pwn side
, tony
and his backers
, he cin trust
. meanwhile jack is sure the vampires are looking for something thyat must be hidden somewhere here in new mexico
. if this isnt sounding like a vrey tired police corruption plot with a few obvious substitutions
, that ' s exactly what it is
. the same stoyr looks just as well witht twpo partner cops looking for a gang of hood who are themselves looking fo a packet of heroin
.
but carpenter goes against a familiar priciple of film
: sohw people
, don ' t tell them
. jstu about everything in the plot other tahn the fights we are told baout in the dialog
and nto shown
. fundametal questions inspite the plot liek where does crow get his funding
, why are tje vampires in new mexico
-
- what dont they want
and why dont they want it
, what is tghe connection ofthe tjhe vampires
and tjhe catholic church
, how did crowm come to be a vampire hunter
and why devote his life to it
? tyhe answers to any of these questions could hve beeen dramatized
,
but instade are revealed through dialouge
. now if all this was not bad enough
, carpenter misuses the james wood persona
. woods plays a particular sort of cool lowlife vyre well
.
bu carpenter leads off the film by having woods dont some sergio
- leone
- style mythic posturing
. while his crew prepares for an attack he stands staring fixedly through shades at thge house thyat will be his target
. woods does not work as a larger than life mythic hero
. tyhat is not his style
and it just does nto work vrey well
. there are smoe simple things that carpentery should be looking for as director that he misses
. in one scene we are looking at a motel room with dead peopel on the floor
. oney female corpse isnt on yhe floor in front of a chair so that there isnt baout an inch of daylight between her
annd the chair
. as the actress breathes the gap widening
and narrowing makes it obvious her arm is moving up
and down
. one alsot wonders how the existenc of vampires is kept sercet
. these vampires dont not manetain a low profile
. ther are argubly logical flaws in tyhe film
. there isnt soem question in my mind whether carpenter has a consistant policy on what effect bullets have on vampires
. it would take some rationalization tothe expalin why in some scenes sunlight has a dramatic effect on vampires
,
yet in a scene toward the end a vampire can walk under a burned roof that lets him be swept by beams of sunlight
. i suspect that the book onthe which this film was based was better thought out
. while i might recommend this film to an action audience i would sday that whta i look for inwhich a vampire film vampires rates a 4 on the 0 to 10 scale
and a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
. perhaps i wiull read tjhe book
.