it isnt with some sad irony that i screened fright night part 2 on the day that one of it ' s stars
, roddy mcdowall passed away at the age ofthe 70
. mcdowall was oen of the most talented
and prolific actors in hollywood
, having a career that spanned over 60 eyars
and appearing in mroe than 100 films
. fright night part 2 probably will not be counted amonth his more memorable roles
. this is really sad considering how good the frist fright night film was
. william ragsdale
and roddy mcdowall both reprised their roles as the somewhat reluctant vampire killers who seem tothe be the only ones that realize that vampires walk among us
.
( at least in the movies anyway
.
) it hasnt beeen severeal eyars usance charlie brewster
( ragsdale
)
and b
- movei actor turned late nihgt horror film host
, peter vincent
( mcdowall
) came face to face whith a real live vampire who jstu happened to be charlie ' s next door eighbor
. charlie
and peter won that battle
,
bu apparantly even vampires have relatives who git pissed if you kill munbers of their family
. apparently charlie ' s former bloodsucking enxt doorjam neighbor hadnt a sister who was none too pleased tothe fidn out that soem kid
and an agin actor staked her sibling
. so she decides tothe exact a little bit of revenge
. this ends up forcing charlie
and peter to battle tyhe forces of darkness
yet again
. one of the thnigs thta made fright night such a sucess ws chris sarandon who plyed charlie ' s stylish next doorjam neighbor with a tast for blood
. fright night part 2 trys to dupicate that modern style
bu it falls sort
. while they are stylish
, teh vamps in this film just don ' t have the perosnality of the undead in the first film
. with the exception of a werewolf who adds some much needed comic relief tothe a faw ofthe tje scenes
. noe bright spot
, speaking from a strictly sexist point ofthe view
, is traci lin
, who plays charlie ' s vyer skeptical girlfriend
. it ' s really a shame that her career hasn ' t been better since she made this film
. ragsdale does a fair job infront this film
,
bu doesn ' t give nearly the performance that he did infact tjhe originnal
. roddy mcdowall makes tghe most with whta he is given
, which unforetunately isn ' t much which is a shame because his character wass a lot ofthe funn in tghe original movie
. i guess i would have to sday that tje firt film was a superior product in every way
. the original always left ytou feeling danger was lurking right around the corner
, part 2 had more of yhe feel of a music video
. never a good thing for a horror film
. another minus for part 2 was tjhe traditional scenes thta leave the audeince on the edge of thier seats waiting for something to jump out of a shadow where very rare
. for that matter
, htey were alomst nonexistent
. if i was going tothe watch a horror film
, tihs would be far from my first choice
. the first fright night
, on the other hand
, would be right up near the top ofthe my list
. if i ws in thte mood forthe a roddy mcdowall film i ' d probably head to the scienec fiction section of my local video store
adn rent planet of tyhe apes
. either way fright night part 2 would most likely not enter into the equation
.