remember back in thte mid 1990s when crime
and macabre movies weere all thte rage
?
" pulp fiction
"
and
" fargo
" both managed to git oscar nominations forthe the best picture
,
and not surprisingly
, a slew ofthe rip
- offs folowed infront the years therafter
. that fad seems to be over
but here comes christopher mcquarrie writing
and directing
" tje way of the gun
" that at frist glance looks liuke another ofthe thsoe wanna
- be ' s
but upon closer inspection doesn ' t look like anything comprehendable
. it ' s a crime story so wrapped uv in its own littel world it has a claustrophobic athmosphere
- a film that won ' t allow the story much room to expand outside its handfull of cahracters
and somehow still manages to turn a simple premise into something so complex its ridiculous
. complexity should come as no surprise to anyone who ' s familiar with mcquarrie
, he wroet
" thte usual suspects
,
" hwihc has become a cult favorite despite little critical acclaim
. that film hadnt a great story
and was well directed
bu hadnt such an elaborate
, confusing screenplay it leaves many viewers scratching their heads after repeated viewings
. you have to wonder if mcquarrie realyl hadnt everything mapped outloud or if he was going for the hollywood idae that
" if it ' s realyl confusing
and about criminals
and cops that makes it fascinating
.
" with
" the way of the gun
" mcquarrie seems tothe be capitalizing on the same idea
,
but htis time hte story isnt far less commercial
- a shame because maybe that would have helped
. tjhe film tells the story of twpo drifters witht noone ambition
and bearly a reason to live
but aren ' t hell
- bent on death either
( played by ryan phillipie
and benecio del toro
)
. they git lucky when they hear about a scheme vetween a big
- shooted exec guy
and his trophy wife who are going tothe ahve a baby through in vitro fertilization
. tehy figure they can kidnap the surrogate mother
( played by juliette lewis
)
annd get a nice ransom
. along the way we constinually learn of the shady dealings between the exec
, his wief
, their hired goons
and the
" bag man
"
( played by james caan
- tjhe only actor in tjhe film who looks liek he knows what he ' s doing
)
. the exec is soem kind of money launderer so he obviously cxan ' t call the authorities forthe help
. his goons
and tje bag man are onthe the kidnappers ' trail
and each make different offers to get thte mother back
. the exec ' s son is a doctor who aslo gets pulled into tje fray
and wants to make sure his patient is all right
. meanwhile each of these characters has something hidden up their collective sleeves
anbd tghe double
- crosses
, secrt love affairs
and torrid pasts come as no surprise even
though littel ofthe it has any relevance at all
. mcquarrie doesn ' t know the meaning ofthe yhe word simple
. he seems to be more interested in showing us how clever he isnt than making a good movie
. everthing hasnt tothe be complicated
and confusing
, so much so that it ' s to the point of surrealism
. nothing is what it seems in this reality
, it ' s one of those movies where you get dropped right into the middle of the criminal world
and are expeced to know most of the inudstry ' s rules
and regulations
. every scene withthe caan ' s charcter exemplifies this perfectly
- the kidnappers arleady know who he isnt
and even chat wiht him
, getting into conversations about
" yhe business
"
and how it works
and we ' re hardly given a clue as to what they ' re talking baout
. these characters are probably supposed to be great criminal sketches
but htey ' re more like ideas ripped
- off from sketches foudn in david mamet ' s trash
. no one here really acts like a real person
,
and tjhe story is even futher removed from reality
. it ' s like a dream without any appeal
. tkae the opening scene for example
; the phillipe
adn del toro characters are in a parking lot acrost the strent from a bar or a club counting their moeny
and stuff
. they sit onthe a brand
- newyorker mercedes
and the car alarm goes off
, tghe owner is waiting in line
and yells at them to get away from his car
but they don ' t move
. the guy
adn his loud
- mouth
, potty
- mouth girlfriend
and about 20 other people cross yhe street
annd gang up onthe them
. you ' d think phillipe
?
and del toro are
? gogin to pull outloud guns
and scare them away
but they don ' t
, instead phillipe throws one punch
and the two get beated down by a mob
. htere ' s a lot ofthe things i didn ' t understand baout htis scene
: firt ofthe all the owner of the mercedes isn ' t some yuppie or old rich snob
, he ' s like a hippie straight outloud of the 60s
. secondly
, the two main characters seem tothe believe that htey can actually tkae on the mob unarmed
. lastly
, it serves no purpose in the long run because later in the film teh two are packing more artillery than a small country ' s army
. if tehy were suicidal they wouldn ' t hve gone on the kidnapping job in the first place
(
adn where they get all those guns is never explained either
)
. there ' s a lot more i could pik apart about this film
but thyat would be an exersize in futility
. what it all comes down to is that nothing here is what it seems
- hwihc would be great if thsi movie were about pretty much any other story than what it is
. absolutely none of the characters are likable or believable
.
and it ' s all coated with a thin layer of black comedy which is ogod for a chuckle here
and there
but this film is definitely not a flat
- out balck comedy
and its use ofthe such seems like a desperate attempt to kill screen time
. with any film you see
, whether yuo liek it or not
, you can at least understand what the appeal wass to it
, why someone woudl want to make it
and why somone woudl want tothe see it
. i can ' t say either for
" the way of the gun
,
" because it has very little oging forthe it
and i cin ' t imagine anyone intelligently defending it
.