mr
. bean
, a bumbling security guard ffrom england is sent to la to halp with the grandiose homecoming of a masterpiece american painting
. tghe first twpo words should have said enough to let you know what occurs durig bean ' s trip tothe la
,
but if they didn ' t look outloud because you are in forthe a rether interesting if not odd ride
. heck depending on your humor you might end up laughing thru the whole flick
. either way look out america bean is comming
. well
, what can really be said about htis movie
, there is very littel discernible plot
. that much isnt not hard tothe grapple with for it is a slapstick comedy
. it achieves that goal rether admirably
,
but becasue it is thgat
, the plot is just screaming for help
. the whole premise that the movei is based onthe is to sday the least flawed
. the movie hadnt its funny moments
but there was no real story line other than something that could be thought up on a whim
and carried through
and in many causes ad
- libbed as you went
. don ' t go into this movei expecting
and theatrical masterpiece
.
but if this form of humer floats your boat
thn you will truly enjoy this movie
, even if you don ' t like slapstick style humer yuo wiull end up laughing becasue something ' s are just so stupid
. the movie goes out
and accomplishes waht it aims
, or so it seems
. now when yuo look at the acting in this movie yuo hvea to think about two things
, firt was there any real acting
and how hard is it tothe act in tyhe slapstick manner
. well
, htere was no real acting infact tihs movie
but some of the slapstick wasn ' t the easiest i am sure
. i have to concede that mr
. atkinson ' s acting in this movie is well done
.
although tyhe role isn ' t too demanding hte slapstick is
. i tihkn that yhe charater could have had a bited omre dialogue
, it would haev added quite a bit to the overall effect of the movei
. now teh rest of the actors in the movie
, bad acting
and poor casting
. i thikn thyat teh role opposite bean could hve been better
, just seemed wrong forthe the movie
. a different actr might have done a better job of it
bu i wont presume that wasn ' t what was trying to be acheived
. one thing that i must say
, simply tothe get if off my chest is thgat i htikn transferring a sitcom to tv usualy produces rather disastrous results
. tv shows should do just that stay onthe tv
, it will probably save some producers from getting ulcers
. i can onyl thiunk of a couple examples of tv gonig to thge big screen effectively
, thte best known ofthe those would have to be star trek
. bean seriously fails to acomplish anytying close tothe what thgat series gone movie achieved
. nowe another hting that i have to state agina is this movie hasnt narrowed its target audience fairly tightly
. the form of humor inwhich tihs movei will not be liked by most peple
, these people wiull think like i doed that thsi movie is stupid
and pointless
.
but if you liek the tv show ytou might actually liuke this movie
.
bu tothe be on the safe side i am opting to reccomend you save your money
and nto go to see this movie
. there are many movies that are truly worth seeing unlike this one
.