a silly film tyhat tries to be a black comedy
bu plays more like lightweight comedy
, with its main asset being a beautifull film location allong spain ' s mountainous coastline
. howard pigeon
( jeff goldblum
) is a 40
- yera
- old mineral water salesman who is marryied fo 13 yersa to a wief constantly nagging him
, elizabeth
( mimi rogers
)
. after a surprise birthday party for him
, where his wife bawls him out for comming lite to his surprise party
, he confids to his best friend that he can ' t stand it anymore
,
and
then tells him his plan to kill her hwile vacationing in thte smae barcelona hotel where they spent thier honeymoon
. jeff is going through a severe mid
- life crises
, worried tath he looks older than his age
. he incessantly talks to himself
, mostly agonizing over his bitter marrige
and chastising himselv why he went out with elizabeth forthe a second time
,
adn
then why he marryied her just because she laughed at his jokes
and was attractive
. he stutters
anbd acts like a man who has lost his confidence
. things change on their vacation
, as elizabeth makse an effort to be nice hwile jeff now becomes the grouch
. he nervously rehearses his murder plan in hte hotel room
. by accident the gun goes off
and into the pillow where he imagined elizabeth would be sitting
. whn other hotel guests
and stff come to check about thge gunshot
, he nervously explains that it ws the tv
. realizing how unworkable his plan is
, he places the gun in the shattered pillow
and throws it into tghe ocean while he waits for elizabeth
.
bu elizabeth found his behavior odd during the entire trip
,
and when after a great deal of effort tothe git a reservation at yhe hotel ' s 5 star restuarant he insists on eating inwhich the room
, she decides she had enough ofthe him
anbd checks out without telling him
. as a result
, he goes to tjhe police to report her missing
. while with the police
, a telegram comes from his wife saying she left him
annd is going awya because she wants to be alone
. his boss
and all those he works with are sympathetic to him
,
annd he gets a job promotion
.
but soon the pillow wtih the gun is fished outloud of teh water
, giving thge police cause to arrest him
anbd search his home
. ther they fidn letters he has written incriminating him tothe thge murder
. tje polical also find out from the hotel stff baout thte gunshot heard in his room
. iin jail
, things look bad for him
. no oen believes him
, including his friends
and lawyer
. his boss fires him
and the papers have a field day with the headline story
: pigeon
: a jailbird
. out on bail
, he realizes that his only hope is tothe track down his wife
. through a call placed on his credit card
, he tracks her down tothe a mountain resort
. once there he lerans thyat she took a hike up the steep mountain
and he gets a priest tothe be his mountain guide after telling him the true story
. hte film is watchable just for tjhe antics of the jeff goldblum comic performance
. he isnt someone coming appart by the seams
, while mimi rogers is his perfect foil
. it ws mostly pantomine humor
, with the comedy charged in the changing facial expressions ofthe the charactors
anbd the absurdity of thge situation
. a very minor farce that might appeal tothe tjhe sitcom crowd
. the film just didn ' t take its situation seriously
and the story had many gaps in it
, so it had no chance for black humor to develop
. it instead played its setted
- up ofthe the henpecked husban acting out his fantasy strikely for enteratinment value to see how many chuckles it coudl draw
.