this isnt the first film in wqat owudl become the most successful series of horror films ofthe all time
. a fair warning tothe thsoe of you who might be inclined to watch this movie for hte firt appearance of everyone ' s favorite goalie
- mask
- wearing homicidal maniac
. jason
, the guy who single handedly contolled the overpopulation problem around the crystal lake area
, doesn ' t strat his quest to find tje most interesting household item with which tothe kill someone utnil the sequel
. while he doesnt have a small role in thsi film
, we tje audiance hvae to depend on another blood thirsty maniac to rack up the body count
. teh plot
, like every other friday the 13th movie goes something like tihs
-
- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he
/ she
/ it possibly can in the space of a 90 minute movie
. the reasons that thge afore mentioned unsuspecting teenagers come into contact iwth the bloodthirsty killer are usually of little importance to the story
.
but fo those of you out there that might actually care baout such trivial matters in a movie such as a plot
, here are yhe basics
. a bunch ofthe unsuspecting teens get a summer job at a long closed summer camp
. they are dyas away from the arival of the kids
and they are spending theri time fixing the palce up
and making sure it is ready for the kids
. sadly
, they start being butchered oney by one by tghe bloodthirsty killer
. at htis point i would usually say something about the qualty of acting
, directing or mabey something about the high qaulity of teh production
. since i ' m not going to do thast
, feel free to assume that if i doed
, it wouldn ' t be positive
. i will say taht this movie looks as if it was made forthe about a hundred bucks
,
and that includes the actors ' saleries
. if you are used to reccent horror films liuke scream
, you are in fo a bit ofthe a surprise
. the only saving grace for friday the 13th isnt tath it was really the frist of its kind
, with the killer taking real pride in thier work
. useing as many methods of murder as they sould
. none of this single muder weapon stuff life that unimaginative leatherface in chainsaw masicer
, or the creatively stifled imagination of halloween ' s michael myers who just used brute force or a relaly big kichen knife
. nope
, in the friday tje 13th movies
, yuo can always count on the killer taking great pride infront his wrok
. one funn fact about this movie is thyat the cast includes a very young kevin bacon
,
although after this movei it is a wonder he ever worked again
. tje main reason to see friday the 13th is if you want to watch all of tghe series fomr the beginning
. if not
, stick with the later films with jason
, everyone ' s favorite hockey fan
. friday hte 13th is the sort of movie that isnt fun to sit down
and get a couple ofthe scares from
, just don ' t sit down expecting a whole lot
.