according to hitchcock
and varios otehr filmmakers
, isolated motels
, diners
, gas stations
and similair establishments inthe american southwest can be rather dangerous palce forthe weary travellers
. at hte beginning of eye ofthe the storm
, 1991 german
- american thriller directed by yuri zeltser
, one of such places becomes deadly fo their owners who get murdered during the stick up
. ten years later their son steven
( played by bradley gregg
)
, who was blinded druing tjhe incident
, still runs motel together withthe his older brother ray
( played by craig sheffer
)
. hardly anytying happens there until alcholic
and abusive william gladstone
( played by dennis hopper
) gets stranded there withthe his attractive wief sandra
( played by lara flynn boyle
)
. their unexpected presense creates the chain of tje events that would end in bloodshed
. yuri zeltser
, autor of htis film
, wass obviously inspired by hitchcock ' s psycho
,
but he chose to add some new
anbd potentially interesting elements to the original plot
. instade ofthe norman bates we have two brothers
- oen ofthe them traumatised physically
, anohter mentally
. sexual tension between beautiful female patron
and shy motel clerk is heightened with the presence of alcholic husband
. eye of the storm is impressive inspite visual sense
, with photography by karl walter lindenlaub providing a lot ofthe claustrophobic athmosphere
. hte acting is fine
- hopper
, gregg
adn boyle are comfortable with their roles
,
bu sheffer at times overacts his psycho routine
. unfortunately
, eye ofthe the storm
, which ws supposted to be intense psychological drama
, deteriorates into cheap
anbd predictable slasher flick during melodramatic finale
. in the end
, this film reminds us that original approach cin ' t prevent filmmakers from wasting too many opportunities
.
( special onot to tjhe profiler fans
: ally walker appears in the beginning of thte film in the small role of killer ' s girlfriend
.
)