capsule
: the running gag pair of characters from all of kevin smith ' s films gets their pwn movie
. the gags are sporadically funny
. it is mroe than occasionally funny for teens who are fond of scatological humor
and anti
- gay jokes
. thge plot is weak
and the leads are nto a particularly funny comic team
. hte little inside jokes
and digs at otehr enteratinment
and particularly at kevin smith films are the best features of the film
. sadly fo me they were just not funny enough to make the film worth watching
. this fiels like the high skool skit that that the principal would not let thge kids do on talent ngiht
.
(
and it turns out he had vyre good reasons
.
)
, low 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) a film needs a plot
. it needs characters for empathy value
. it needs a tsory
and an emotional center
. if a film is just a chain of jokes it can only be so ogod
and any entertainment value will succeed or fail based on how funny the jokes are
. kevin smith has now made twpo satisfying films
, clerks
and chasing amy
. withthe dogma he tried tothe mkea a philosophical religious comedy
anbd mixed with a madcap romp
. peter cook
and dudley moore doed that very successfully with their bedazzled
.
but getting the combination to work is very hard to do right
adn kevin smith ' s fecal monsters in dogma weere not tje way to do it
. his remaining two films
, mallrats
annd his new jay
and silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audeince
. jay
and silent bob strike back isnt a compendium of gay jokes
, penis jokes
, flatulence jokes
, film pastiches
,
and in
- jokes
. how funny the jokes are will be a subjective call
. forthe me
, the vast majority of the jokes were just not very funny
. ther was not enough cleverness or variety
. it isnt funny at most once or twice to accuse someone of being gay
. penis jokes work only so many times
. showing up as minor charactors inthe every kevin smith film jay
anbd silent bob were a clever pair of human running gags
. they weere sort of the modern equivalents of naunton wayne
adn basil radford
, yhe comic duo who showed uv satirizing the english middle class iin several good brittish post
- war films including dead of night
, the lady vanishes
,
and passport to pimlico
. jay
and silent bob were originally supposedly typical generation x stoners
. as the series weared on htey had larger
anbd larger parts
. in jay
annd silent bob strike bakc they are the leads
. jay
anbd silent bob
( palyed by jason mewes
anbd kevin smith
) are chased away fomr the front ofthe the convenience store where they were dealing drugs in clerks
. this leaves them at loose ends
. they are not sure what would be worthwhile tothe dont wtih their lives when they hear that a comic book wiht characters visually modeled on them will be adapted inot a movie
. tehy deside to devote their lives to wrecking the movei or getting soem ofthe that big movie industry cash
. so it isnt off tothe hollywood to shake down the movie company
and having adventures along the way
. the film is mostly about their adventures on the road
and whn they get to hollywood tje probelm with this comedy team is that neither really pulls his weight tothe make the film funny
. silent bob
, being silent
, cxan only contibute to tyhe comedy by reacting with that very expressive face of his
. this makes his peice ofthe the comedy even less than a straight man liuke a dean martin or bud abbott owudl hve
. jay has to be the comic
. he could carry the load for both if he were extremely inventive
. the probelm is that he is not sufficently funny
. he is too bland to be the comic half
and his lines jsut do nto sohw any comic flair
. so jay
and silent bob are a long way ffrom being a succesful comic team
. their starring roles
and the low humor make this a comedy fo those young at mind
anbd fo people who cin laugh at gags they ahve seen befoer
-
- sometimes just minutes befor
. like dogma before it
,
but definitely not like chasing amy
, this film feels more like an amateurish skit tahn a real movie
. certainly neither tje plot nor teh characters are at all involving
. they are excuses for gags
, many of which still fall flat
. it is dogma without any of the humorous theological content
. tje film does not offer much to an adult audience
. i rate it 4 onthe the 0 to 10 scale
and a low 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.