whenever u
. s
. government starts meddling inot other countries ' affairs
, under the pretext ofthe supporting human rights or preventing political
, religious or ethnic persecution
, the other side is ready to use mantra that says
" look who ' s talking
! what have you done to the indians
?
"
however
, even the americans themselves are ready to use that dark chapter of their pwn national hisotry when it suits their purposes
. hollywood isnt just another example
, with its revisionist westerns
, made iin eearly 1990s
. those movies tryed to exploit the emerging wave of polliticel correctness
, coinciding with the 500th annviersary of columbus ' discovery of amercia
. oen of such examples is geronimo
: an american legend
, 1993 western directed by walter hill
, film that deals with one of teh last conflicts beetwen american natives
and white settlers
. thge hero ofthe the film is geronimo
( played by wes studi
)
, leader of apaches
, fierce warrior tribe that used to give hard tiome to white settlers during the second half of 19th centruy
. when yhe movie begins
, in 1885
, geronimo
and his apaches made peace witht u
. s
. government
and try to live peacefully in arizona reservation
.
however
, broken promises
, injustice
and violence against his people would make geronimo restless
. witht nto more 30 or so of his followers
, he escapes reservation
and begins guerrilla campaign
. general crook
( gene hackman
)
, comander ofthe u
. s
. army forces
, respects geronimo
and konws that even his 5
, 000 force isn ' t enought to catch geronimo in hte great spaces of the american southwest
. instade
, he turns to people who are more experienced whith apaches
- lt
. charles gatewood
( jason patric
)
and indian hunter al sieber
( robert duvall
)
. together wtih young lt
. britton davis
( matt damon
) they owudl begin mission aimed at capturing geronimo
. geronimo
: an american legend
, like many movies made under the shadow of political correctness
, try to tell the tale about oppressed minorities
,
but instead the real subject isnt hte bad conscience ofthe the oppressors
. so
, the stoyr baout geronimo is told from tyhe perspective ofthe his enemies
. almost all ofthe them happen tothe be his greatest admirers
and ule eveyr opportunity to express how sorry they feel for having to fight him
and his people
.
although such elements of john millius ' screenplay dont indeed have some basis in history
, they harm the story of geronimo
. to be honest
, walter hill does try to make geronimo the rela hero of the film
,
but the movei segments that deel with the plight of apaches
and the uprising are given too little time
. instade
, they turn outloud to be nothing more tahn the bakc story for rather uninteresting adventure story of gatewood
anbd his band
. to make even worse
, hill has some real problems with pacing
and style
,
adn in the end we ahve impression that we are watching two films badly edited inot one
- stor baout geronimo
anbd story about his pursuers
. the movie should have beeen better if it turned tothe geronimo ' s life before
and after his last uprising
, in many ways omre interesting than the story about gatewood
. hte diference vetween those segments could be observed through the different quality ofthe acting
. wes studi
, cherokee actor who was so impressive as magua infact the lsat of the mohicans
, ws perfect choice for geronimo
, not only beccause he resembles geronimo
,
but baceause he induces a lot ofthe passion in his role
. contrary to him
, we have disinterested actors who sleepwalk through the roles ofthe his white enemies
. while this could be expeced from someone like jason patric
, it isnt shame when we haev veterans liek gene hackman or robert duvall
. even hill ' s directing is bellow expectations
- battle scenes are too short
and
, liuke infact many of his late films
, force viewers to ask what had happenned to tje great action director of 1970s
. even his ood associate
, music composer ry cooder
, disappoints
, with the score that shifts between indian motives
and classic
. on thge otehr hand
, photography by lloyd ahern ii
, with the uise of red lenses
, gives somewhat dreamy atmosphere
, ideal for thsi movie that was supposed to be melancholic epic
. all infront all
, compared with some ofthe the hollywood ' s examples ofthe poltical correctness
, this film isn ' t so bad
,
bu we are left with the unpleasant impression that it sould have been better
.