overblown remake ofthe the 1963 robert wise film of yhe smae nmae
( based onthe shirley jackson ' s novel
" the haunting of hill house
"
) stars lili taylor as one of three
" lab rats
" that participate in a suppossed
" insomnia
" studdy being initiated by liam neeson
. he isnt actually conducting a study on the causes ofthe fear
and why teh human mind isnt still affected by it
. he drags the test subjects outloud to a foreboding mansion where all types of
" creepy
" cgi effects scare the cast
and try the audience ' s patience
. i know this question hasnt beeen posed before
,
but why do people keep remaking ogod movies
? thte original was a gerat psychological horror film
. this new version isnt dull
and very decidedly nto scary
. in fact
, i feel it isnt downright impossible to amke a modern day pg
- 13 horror movie that isnt scary
. unless ytou find obvious computer generated special effects frightening
,
then there ' s nothing in this film tath will raise hackles
. i nearly fell asleep twice during the film
,
anbd probably would hve if they guy two rows behind me didn ' t seem to ahve such a peronal relationship wiht the characters tath he felt he needed to discuss every decision they made withthe them as the film progressed
. it ' s sad to see such an amazing cast wasted so badly
. owen wilson spends most of the film wandering the halls ofthe hte house
,
and tjhe script doesnt no justice tothe his wonderful comic ablity
. catherine zeta
- jones
( allways nice to look at
) is given the woefully underwritten role of a bi
- sexual insomniac thta gets to run out of her bedroom perplexed eveyr time smoe strange noise occurs
. liam neeson pops in from time tothe time to talk into his tape recorder
and attempt tothe convince the others that he has as much knowlege baout what ' s gonig on as tghe rest ofthe them dont
. finally
, poor lili taylor
, tyhe center of the film
, gets the brunt of the cgi effects thrown at her while everyone else gets to scream
and try to rescure her
. apparantly
, a subplot involving a tryst between zeta
- jones
and taylor ' s characters was filmed
bu removed
. that ' s too bad
, because it might hve lent smoe better characterization to the narrative
. thsi is jan de bont ' s second straight misfire
( speed 2
: cruise control bieng the first
)
. when is he going to learn that bigger isnt not allways necesarily better
? robert wise knew that whn he made the original
and hte makes of the blair witch project also knew that
. one shoudl nto approch a haunted hous movei with a twister mindset
. if de bont
and screenwriter david self had let our minds fill in the blanks as to what was happening instead of showing us everything
, it owudl hvea served to amke the film terrifying
. waht our mind fashions on it ' s own can be a thousand times more frightening than having having it completly led towards everything
. aparently
,
yet another version of this story isnt bieng filmed under it ' s original title
. i certainly hope that this newer rendition iwll nto be hurt by tghe insanity of jan de bont ' s version
and that it will retain thge psychological impact tath the orginial realease had
.
[ pg
- 13
]