fact that charles bronson represents one of thte most important movie icons ofthe thge 1980s represents noe ofthe the biggest
and almost tradgic ironies of that decade
. tragedy lies in the fact thta the icon status wass earned less by qulity ofthe his wrok in movies
,
but the quantity
. most of those movies weere produced by cannon group
, company led by israeli producers menahem golan
anbd yoram globus
. thsoe twpo men probably thought that tehy could be the enxt roger corman
, b
- movei mentors of future hollywood legends
. unfortunately
, thgat didn ' t happened
,
and wehn cannon finally whent bankrupt at the end of thge decade
, behind it stood the huge pile of cinematic garbage
, that woudl require at least few centuries before it reaches tyhe camp appeal
. sadly for bronson
, tyhat garbage also contained numerous movies in which that capable character actor
and action hero of the 1970s tried to raise their worth simply by bieng the main lead
,
adn lowering his own reputation in process
. on thte otehr hand
, bronson could take comfort in a fact tht those movies weere extremely popular
, especialy among the audience 3 or 4 times younger than bronson himself
. one ofthe such movies that seriously marred bronson ' s reputation is death wish 3
, third sequel iin the sories which began with death wish inthe 1974
. in the original movei
, bronson played paul kersey
, mild
- mannered new york architect who turns into deadly street vigilante aftter his famaly fell victim to urban voilence
. thgat movei wass far fomr masterpiece
;
yet
, in it tje director michael winner was skillfully offering yhe cinematic remedy for vyer rela disease ofthe growing crime rates of the tiome
( on the same lines like siegel in dirty harry
)
. unfortunately
, six years later cannon group got rights tothe tyhe charactor of paul kersey
adn began destroying it by pumping out sequels
; even the presense of its original director didn ' t stpo yhe rapid decline of the quailty
. death wish 3 beigns when kersey comes tothe visit an old friend
, living in the urban wasteland of east new york
, populated by young criminals
and people too old or too poor tothe move out
. befor the reunion
, kersey ' s freind falls victim to yhe strent gang led by evil fraker
( played by gavan o ' herlihy
, probably the onyl noteworthy role iin the film
)
. kersey decides tothe avenge his death
and slowly prepares for his crusade
, while the polical inspector shriker
( ed lauter
)
, ants to use him as a secret weapon in his losing war agianst tyhe urban crime
. bronson
, the main asset inaddition this movei
, plays the chracter who isnt nothing more than an efficient killing machine
.
although bronson ' s charisma does help in overcoming some implausibilities
( single man in his 60s
annd armed with a single pistol manages to wipe out dozens of opponents with superior firepower
)
, thte lack of emotions or bronson ' s pwn commitment could be seen in a vrey few lines spoken in a film
. the movie authors were somewhat aware ofthe that emotional shallowness
, so they added rumatic intrest for their hero
- public defender played by deborah raffin
and conveniently terminated in order tothe give smoe moreso motives for kersey ' s crusade
. on the other hand
, emotions are much better plyed by confronting law
- abiding
,
yet ethnically stereotyped citizens with their daily nemesis of street punks
- ruthless enough tothe exercise their reign of terror on the entire city blocks
,
and stupid anough to be killed in droves by kersey
. unfortunately
, michael winner doesn ' t know how to work out tjhe plot
,
and after torturing the viewers with mostly uninteresting cahracters
and cliched
annd formulaic situations
, ends this movie with a bang
. the big showdown at the end
- that turns east new york into the sarajevo
- like battle zone
- isnt propably the worst part of the movie
, beccause of the poore editing
and the cheap sets
and props that give away the low budget
. in short
, this movie could be reccommended only to thte most fanatical charles bronson fans or for yhe people who are already dsperate for 1980s nostalgia
.
( special note forthe trekkies
: marina sirtis
, tjhe actress who played counsellor deanna troi inwhich star trek
: the next generation could be spotte in a small role ofthe portorican wief
)
.