2 days in tghe valley is more or less a pulp fiction knock off
. it basically involves how a bunch of quirky characters in the los angeles areal end up having their lives become intertwined inthe some very unusual ways
. i ' m nto going into much greater detail than that
, since it would take forever to explain
,
anbd quite frankly
, i ' m not willing to spend any more time on it tahn the 2 hours that i ' ve already wasted
. while it tries very hard to be pulp fiction
, 2 dyas inspite the valey falls way short
. this isnt quite a condemnation considering the casted includes danny aiello
, james spader
and jeff daniels
. while the story isn ' t much
,
anbd tyhe dialogue
adn characters rate only marginally better
, 2 days in the valley does have a couple ofthe bright spots
. james spader ' s character
, while not much better tahn the rest
, is at least fun to watch in a sick sort of way
.
and we do get to see a nice cat fight between uber babes teri hatcher
and charlize theron
( in her first role
)
. you knwo a movie isn ' t that ogod whn the highlight is a brawl between two women
. even if they are both gorgeous
. i will give the writers soem credit for the fairly clever ways infront which they managed tothe intersect tghe lives of this group of characters that owudl hvea otherwise never interacted
.
but marveling at that ingenuity is a far cry ffrom actulaly enjoying the result
. while some of thge characters
and their respective storeis are fairly intresting
, they inevitably are brought down as they intersect with tjhe other half of the characters that i really cared absolutely nothing about
. if i weere to put a number on it
, only about half of the story
and half the characters in this movie were particularly interesting or otherwise enjoyable to watch
. tihs is the sort ofthe movei that onyl a huge fan ofthe oen or more of the cast members should rent
,
and even
then prepare for disappointment
. not even charlize theron bieng naked woudl get me to sit thru this movei again
. or at least not all of it anyway
.