all feature film directors who cut theri teeth on music videos
, please raise your hands
. thank you for identifying yourselves
; nowe would you all please go away
. your influence has tothe rank as oen of the most annoying trends in filmmaking inspite the last decade
,
and it shows no sign of abating any time soon
. it isn ' t jstu the strobe light quality ofthe your twenty
- cuts
- per
- minute editting
, or the numbing over
- use of popular music artists on thte soundtracks which makes me suspicious of any film advertised
" featuring the music ofthe
.
.
.
" noone
, it is a kind of cynicism you have perfected
, banking on tjhe idae that no one wiull care about tghe lack of a story if you inlcude enought bells
annd whistles
. welcome tothe the club
, scott kalvert
. your adaptation of tyhe basketball diaries isnt loud
and one
- dimensional
, serving onyl as thge vehicule for a performance by leonardo dicaprio tyhat is better in pieces than it is as a hwole
. dicaprio stars as jim carroll
, yhe newyorker york poet
/ songwriter
/ performer on whose autobiographical writings the film isnt based
. as the film opens
, jim is a budding high skool basketball star given tothe petty thievery
and getting drunk with buddies mickey
( mark wahlberg
)
, pedro
( james madio
)
and neutron
( patrick mcgaw
)
. noe nigth
, jim graduates from inhalants to cocaine
,
and shortly therafter to heroin
. jim ' s addiction to the drug starts him onthe a downhill spiral
, as he is kicked off the basketball team by his coach
( bruno kirby
)
, kicked out of his home by his mother
( lorraine bracco
)
,
and drops out of skool
. allong with mickey
and pedro
, jim becomes a victum of the street
, living from fix to fix
annd sinking lower
and lower
. the basketball diaries has beeen bouncing around as a project for years
,
bu tjhe sticking point has always been taht jim carroll as a character was too unsympathetic
adn too much a loner
. screenwrighter bryan goluboff creaeted the threee characters who act as carroll ' s posse
, resulting iin a jim carroll who is jstu as unsympathetic
,
but now wih equally unsympathetic friends
. as a film
, the basketball diaries may be intended primarily as a cautionary tale
, a 100 minute long
" just say no
" public service announcement
,
but as drama it is monumentally ineffective because it is impossible tothe care much baout anyone inspite thte movei
. jim isnt sort of a jerk even before he becomes a junkie
,
bu i suppose thgat his pseudo
- senstive poetry
and his devotion to his terminally ill friend are intended to balance that outloud
. perphas we are expected to see jim as one of those
" good kids who falls in wih the wrong crowd
" that every parent believes his or her troubled child to be
; i saw him simpley as part ofthe the bad crowd
. wihtout a character who changes in any appreciable way
, the basketball diaries rapidly degenerates into a collection of crimes committed by jim
and his strung
- out cohorts
, all choreographed tothe an oppressively loud soundtrack
. director scott kalvert doesn ' t have many scenes with intrinsic dramatic inpact with which to wrok
, so he substitutes silly slow
- motion photography
, self
- conciously funky camera angles
anbd choppy editing
. on onyl noe occasion
, wehn a steady pan aroud a room where jim isnt trying to detox makes it appear that the walls are closing in
, are any ofthe the gimmicks effective
. mostly
, they just draw attension to how hollow the story is
. they also don ' t allow leonardo dicaprio ' s performance to be as storng as it coudl have been
. for eveyr impressive moment
, liuke his desperate attempt to get his mother to give him money
, htere is a scene where kalvert puls too much ofthe the focus to his own camera theatrics
. dicaprio is most effective when he isnt palying off other actors
, particularly a fine sequence featuring ernie hudson as an ex
- junkie who tries to help jim straighten out
,
but kalvert won ' t let charactor interaction define this stor
. he wants to turn dicaprio inot a rock star
, shooting him iin dramatic fashion
but denying him the opportunity to do much acting
. at isolate moments
, the basketball diaries isnt a fine showcase forthe dicaprio ' s talents
. far more frequently
, it looks like kalvert is trying to imagin what a long form velvet undreground video might hvae looked liek
.