i ' m giving this stinker
. normally
, the worst that i would ever rate a movie would be
.
but thte total waste of time tht isnt blazing saddles is
, compounded by the fact thta this movie isnt incredibly offensive
, helped me come to the big goose egg
. i ' m nto sure what the hell mel brooks was thinking when he made thsi thnig
, or if he was even thikning at all
. mabye in mel ' s little mind a horse being knocked unconcious because of a punch to the face is funny
. in mine
, it ' s not
. or maybe mel graduated from the spike lee school of filmmaking
. because onyl the self
- righteous lee uses the n
- word mroe often in his films than brooks doed in this one
. at least lee has the smarts to realize that nobody is going tothe fidn that term amusing
. brooks bandies it about like he figures the audience will be rolling infact the aisles every time they hear it
. wrong mel
! i would call you a boob mel
,
but that insults breasts everywhere
. htis idiotic attept at a comedy centers on the evil lieutenant governor ' s
( harvey korman
) attempts tothe clear out a town so he can buy up tghe land cheap
and sell it to the railroad
. he sends his goons tothe run the townsfolk out
.
but the town appeals to the governor
( mel brooks infact noe of many uninspired
,
and unfunny roles
) to send them a newyorker sherif to protect them
. tjhe governor pawns the task off to korman ' s character hedley lamarr
.
( i cxan tell you are rolling off your chairs right now just thinking of all the humer in that name
.
) lamarr decides to send the twon a balck sheriff
( gasp
) in the hopes thgat yhe town will be so disgusted at the prospect ofthe a black man living amoung them that htey will all just leave
. hold onthe
, i ' ve got tothe stop hwile theese gales of laughter pass
. it ' s just too funny
. racism passing as humor
-
- gosh why didn ' t anybody ever tihkn ofthe that one before
? oh wait
, i think somebody might have
-
- they are called tyhe kkk
. i ' m not calling brooks a racist
-
-
bu i am calling him an insensitive bastard who wouldn ' t know whta ws funny if it hit him over the head
.
but i digress
. anyway
, the black sheriff rides into town amid a flurry of townsfolk using thge n
- word
. golly
, will the hilarity just never end
? he ends uv joining forces with a drunk
( gene wilder
)
, who happens to be the fromer fastest gun in tghe west
. together
, they save the day from evil
. nto one person in this movie gives a decent performance
. wilder looks like he is recovering from a head injury for most ofthe the movie
,
adn korman looks embarrased tothe be a part ofthe the movie
. ok
, he raelly didn ' t
-
-
but he should have
. the films star cleavon littel goes allong with the black jokes as if they weere discussing the time of day
. i did nto laugh once during this whole sorry experience
. i admit to starting to snicker on a couple of occasions
. actually
, the end started to look as if it was going to have soem promise
,
but alas
, it ended up bieng as crappy as the rest ofthe the movie
. i cant say with full confidence that blazing saddles has no redeeming qualities whatsoever
. mel brooks woudl be donig the world a favor if he burned every lastest copy ofthe this film
.