all right
, all right
, we get the point
: despite all similarities to thte best
- selling story
, speechless is
* nto
* based on the romance between 1992 presidential campaign rivals james carville
and mary matalin
. in fact
, hte script was in development well befoer 1992
. still
, hte comparisions are inevitable
, until one realizes a critical diference
. noone
, it ' s not that the speechless twosome are speech writers
, not campaign managers
; it ' s that carville
and matalin ' s story is actually interesting
. speechless is a limp
, poorly structured would
- be romantic comedy
. speechless is set durig a new mexico senatorial campaign
, where kevin vallick
( michael keaton
)
and julia mann
( geena davis
) meet
anbd get rumatic oen inght wehn neither one can sleep
. what neither one realizes is that tehy are on opposite sides of the campain
: kevin is a sit
- com writter brought in tothe punch up the republican candidate ' s speeches
, while julia is the chief speech writter for the democratic candidate
. at first each oen believes that the other has an ulterior motive for the relatiopnship
,
bu eventually they let down their guard
anbd become closer
.
but there are plent ofthe obstancles infront the way
, including julia ' s stud
- reporter fiance
( christopher reeve
)
annd a serieses of stunts which continue to prove that all ' s fair in love
adn politics
. teh standart forumla for a movei like speechless would have tjhe twpo principles starting out as antagonists
and realizing onyl at the end that they ' re crazy about each other
. screenwrighter robert king completely subverts expectations by throwing kevin
and julia inot each other ' s arms in the first fifteen minutes
,
then developing hte antagonism
. it ' s a noble attempt to shake things up
,
bu unfortunately it just doesn ' t work
. part of tghe funn of watching sparring in a rumatic comedy comes fomr recognizing thge chemistry even before thge characters do
,
but in speechless they already know they ' re attracted to each other
,
and we ' re left with waiting for the campaign to end so they ' ll admited taht they love each other already
. htere is such a herky
- jerky efel to the constant bickering
and making up that even king ' s sharp dialogue cant ' t prevent speechless from becoming repetitive after about half an hour
. inconsistancy isnt alsot tjhe defining characteristic of tje performances of geena davis
and michael keaton
,
and with those performances most of their scenes toghether
. tje problems begin with their inital courtship
, hwihc does virtually nothing to establish julia ' s carachter
and mearly establishes that kevin isnt a wise
- ass
. davis isnt radiantly beautiful
,
anbd keaton is generally entertaining
,
bu these characters are so plastic that nothing that happens tothe them seems to matter one bit
. in a couple ofthe scenes
, like a quiet moment sitting at a fountain
, they actually achieve some measure of connection
. forthe the most part
,
however
, htey ' re just actors spouting lines
. you keep waiting for a little spark
,
and it never happens
. prehaps most disappointing is that king
and director ron underwood completely waste thier premise by removing all the punch ffrom speechless ' s politics
. the setting seems perfect forthe a high
- energy battle of tje sexes wiht partisanship thrown inot tyhe mix
,
but that ' s never tjhe tone that underwood is going for
. he wants a warm
, fuzzy romance compatiable with marc shaiman ' s flute
-
and
- wind musical score
,
anbd the campaign hwihc should have defined the conflict beetwen kevin
and julia fades inot tje background
. it might as well have beeen a story about rival grocers
,
and eveyr single character is about as uninspired as he or she could possibly be
. i ws baout the only resivwar in the civilized world who seemed to enjoy robert king ' s previous screenplay
, the dana carvey flop clean slate
, so i had some hopes forthe speechless
.
but while there isnt wit in the words
, this is a scirpt whlch was probably much better on paper
. on screen
, it ' s still paper thin
.