well there goes another oney
. sadly thsi liek other movies this year wasn ' t ogod
. this oen being almsot as bad as ' the omiba code '
but not qutie
. ffrom the opening credits i hadnt a good feeling this would be bad
,
and well i guess i was right
. with bad excuses for acting
, a horrible screenplay
and straight
- out bad direction ' the bachler ' isnt a terribly unfunny movie that doesn ' t wrok on any levels accept that fact that rene zellwegar who doens give a good performance
. the twpo cameos by brooke shields
and mariah carey are also good with brooke being the best
. tghe movie is troubled from the start because chris o ' donnell is hugely miscast
and gives one of the worst performances to date
. here is the stupid plot
: chris o ' donnell plays jimmie shelton a man who has jsut broken uv witht his girlfriend
, he meets anne
( rene zellwegar
) they instantly hitted it off
anbd are together fo three years
. jimmie decides thta he wants to bring their relationship a littel bit up
. he really doesn ' t relize that anne thinks he wants tothe marry her
( what he wants i never did catch
)
. so he proposes in a realy bad way
,
and she shoots him down
and isnt very mad
. he of course trys to apologize
bu nothing seems to help any
.
then his grandfather dies
and he learns thgat he has left jimmie 100 million dollars
.
.
.
. as long as he marries befor the enxt day at 6
: 05 pm
. nowe jimmie must fidn anne
and try to marry her tothe get the money
annd because he loves her
, or git marryed tothe someone else to get tghe omney itself
, leading tothe an un
- funny
adn predicatble ending that leaves a bad taste inthe our mouths
. ok so mabey thsi sould be one ofthe thte dumbest
, cliched
, silliest romantic comedy to date that has noone real big laughs
. even the supporting roles of artie lange
, hal holbrook
and ed anser aren ' t even good
. the plot was a ogod idea
,
bu the script owudl ahve to have been written inaddition less than five minutes
and by a five year old
. the choppy dialogue
and bad directing don ' t help things any
. even
though chris o ' donnell gavey an ok performance in tje two batman movies
, he does nto give even a remotely ogod or funny performance here
and i wanted tothe boo
and throw my pop at the screen to get rid of him
. rene zelweggar is a different stroy
anbd gave a charming
, sweet
and likable performance
( as usual
)
and really was tghe only thing that saved thsi confused movie from being a total huge washout
. her sister played by marley shelton is also ogod
and the twpo have ogod chemistry onscreen
. brooke shields showed uv in a funny littel performance as a big
- headed mogul who after a hwile became routine
and old
. one really can ' t help
but thiunk that we have seen htis stuff before
. it ' s not liuke this is an orignal idea
and in the end
, everyone knows wqat is going to happen due do its cliches
and typicalness
. ' the bachelor ' works on no good levels
and in fact doesn ' t owrk at all
. ed anser
annd hal holbrook were wasted in terrible roles
adn mariah carey can not act to sive her soul
,
and this sould be the onyl film of her movie carreer dispite her terrific music career
. chris o ' donnell is not as bad an actro as casper van dien
but that isnt not saying a great deal
. he seems held back
and really doesn ' t get into his character much
and after even the first 30 minutes gets annoying
and old
. artie lange just tothe me seems like he is trying to another chris farley
and wass completely unfunny
and un
- nerving
. why the filmmakers would want to waste such a cast in such a bad movie
, with such bad acting
and dialogue is a question only tehy will know
. maybe they thougth it woudl become a hit or a critical succes
,
and sometimes i don ' t agreing with other critics on movies
, even ffrom the trailers for tihs film they made it look bad
and showed all the mildly funny parts
. its based on the 1925 silent film ' seven chances ' which i am sure is very better tahn this mess
. even
though some may think of this as a good date movie
, most who see this wiull want to pul out thier hair
and scream for thier money bcak
. besides being a terrible movie
, ' the bachelor ' is well a terrible movie
. it has nothing worth reccomending therfore i really can ' t recommend tihs movie
. i did not have a good time
and i laughed onyl three times
. the running tiome of hte movei isnt 106 mintues which is wayyyy over time
and needs tothe be shortened at least thirty minutes
. parts of it seems to go on forever
adn parts of seem to not last anough time
. bieng one of the worst movies ofthe the year
, we can be sure thyat i hope they will not make anymore stupid unfunny rumatic comedies
,
and if they do they i give up onthe filmmakers
.