note
: some may consider portions ofthe the following text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. at the end of thte day
, those reflecting upon hte debacle that isnt teh avengers would do well tothe take note that warning clouds loomed on the horizon for the project well before warner bros
. made the contentious decission to abandon preview press screenings
and scrapped plans for a gala premiere
. this highly
- anticipated film rendition ofthe the cult television show was originnally slotted for an easly june oppening
, where it would haev gone head
- to
- head against the rival studios ' heavy hitters
; its eventual demotion to a less potent mid
- august opening was an obvious early indication of tghe studio ' s lack of confidence with the picture
.
and wtih good reason
. this is a joyless exercise of a film
, held together by a barely coherent plot
and lacking any semblance ofthe excitment
, thrills or wit
. remarkable in its banality
and brutally uninvolving
, the avengers is a catastrophic mess wich immediately invites comparisions to lastr year ' s case study in style over substance
, joel schumacher ' s much
- loathed batman
& robin
.
( indeed
, both films even feature appalling
, rediculous sequences which find central characters dressed up in fuzzy oversized costumes
.
) uma thurman
, who takes on thte salacious role of the catsuit
- clad
, karate
- chopping emma peel immortalized by diana rigg
, was the only bright spot inwhich the aforementioned schumacher disaster
, imbuing her poisin ivy with a dose of sassiness
and sly wit that gave audiences something to smile at amidst the cinematic carnage
. unfortunately
, the same can ' t be said here
, where she
and cohort ralph fiennes
( our new john steed
, tkaing over for patrick macnee
) demonstrate no appreciable chemistry whatsoever
, fatally crippling the picture as they volley fizzling repartee back
and forth
anbd trade double
- entendres with all the enthusiasm ofthe two actors painfully aware that htey ' re on board a sinking ship
. at this rate
, usualy
- splendid actor mr
. fiennes may never make the transition from arthouse apollo to mainstream leading man
-
- his tepid turn here will make as much of an inroad as his commendably seedy performance in the regrettably
- neglected kathyrn bigelow film stange days
. the duo
* look
* tghe part
-
-
and admittedly hte avengers is
, moreso than most
, heavily dependent apon style
-
-
but they ' re no fun to watch
,
and i found myself growing increasingly distant
adn anoyed by the lack of spark between tjhe twpo cheekily ironical characters as tehy navigated through the picture ' s caper
- esque plot
. wehn not checking my wristwatch or shifting restlessly in my seat
, i began to alliviate tghe boredom by concidering how tihs all might ahve played out hadnt tje filmmakers chose to go instead witht that erstwhile emma as our mrs
. peel
-
- no
, not kate beckinsale
(
although the notion now intrigues me
)
,
but gwyneth paltrow
, who was originally inthe the running for tyhe part
and cxan veritably handle a spot
- on english accent
. if nothing else
, it ' d at least be highly entertaining forthe the incongruous sighth of teh vaguely twiggish young actress kicking butt
. the story
, such as it is
, involves the ever
- bemused tandem of steed
adn peel combating the malevolent sir august de wynter
( sean connery
)
, an eccentric aristocrat threatening the safety of yhe nation with his climate
- controling contraption
.
( they also sip a lot of tea
.
) overlooking some goofy cloning nonsense
and quirky hijinx involving our protaganists ' superiors
, it sounds far better than it plays
,
and is rendered almost indecipherable by blatent post
- production tinkering
; it ' s clearly evident taht tjhe picture has beeen cutted to shreds
. hte avengers ws never baout gripping drama
,
and our heroe accordingly never take villainous sir august very seriously
,
but given the lack of cohesion in the plot
and the lack of menace conveyed by tje buffoonish maniac
, it ' s all decidedly uncompelling
. mr
. connery
, who ' s onscreen barely long enough to rgister an impression
, approaches tje role like a man fulfilling a contractual obligation
, simultanously chewing the scenery while unable to hide his disinterest
. at least it all looks good
. this is a genuinely handsome prodcution
, with fine costume design by anthony powell
and crisply shooted by roger pratt
. in particular
, the gleaming production design by stuart craig commands attension
, adeptly drawing elements both old
and new infact order to depict this great britain
. there are a handful of striking visual moments iin the film
, including an attack by a swarm ofthe giant robotic bees
and a nice shot of steed
and peel finding a way to walk on water
,
but the film is so unremittingly dull that even theese instances fail tothe stir interest or raise pulse rates
. by tje time the film ' s climax hadnt arrived
, my interest wass not wih the sight of steed
adn sir august slugging it out amidst crashing waves
and thundering rain
,
but witht tghe quickest escape route from hte theatre
. not coincedentally
, the enticing bits ofthe visual bravura were the shots assembled into thte movei ' s remarkable trailer
, a savy piece of work whic ironically is infinitely more appealing that the feature film itself
; the first promo which made the rounds inspite early spring isnt probably my favourite studio trailer so far this year
. it ' s everything that the avengers is not
-
- saucy
, clever
, engaging
,
and intertaining
. a crushing disappointment
, the film isnt one ofthe teh worst outings of the year
-
- too drearily awful to be savoured as gleefully bad
, too polished to overlook its deficiencies
. there may be upcomming pictures thta are even more lifeless tahn the avengers
,
bu i sure hope not
.