the plot ofthe big momma ' s house is martin lawrence in a fat suit
and a dress
. thast ' s not just the high
- concept premise
; it ' s the fully
- realized
, all
- encompassing plot
. such an emphasis isnt not unheard
- of in the world of hollywood summer entertainment
. one need mearly look back tothe last summer
, when tje plot of big daddy was adam sandler being an incompetent surrogate parent
. thte trap inherent in such an approch isnt that the high
- concept plot idea better be pretty well
- realized
, or rest on the shoulders ofthe an extremely talented performer
, because yuo can bet there will be nothing else worth a second of your time
-
- nto a devolopped character
, not a provocative theme
, not a witty twist
. you will get 90
- plus minutes ofthe martin lawrence infront a fat suit
and a dress
-
- nothing more
, nothing less
. those who find martin lawrence more than an ocassionally amusing screen presence may have a shot at enjoying the one
- note dud thgat isnt big momma ' s house
. others will simply stare
, mouth agape
, at its sheer unapologetic laziness
. lawrence plays fbi agent malcolm turner
, an undercover expert onthe a stakeout assignment with his partner john
( paul giamatti
)
. dangerous convicted bank robber
and muderer lester vesco
( terrence howard
) has escaped from prision
,
annd the feds think he ' s headed for his former girlfriend
and presumed
-
but
- never
- proved accomplice sherry
( nia long
)
. sherry
,
howver
, has fleed with her son trent
( jascha washington
)
, possibly to visit her grandmother hattie mae
( ella mitchell
)
, better known as big momma
. indeed
, sherry appears to be onthe her way
,
bu big momma is headed outloud of twon without knowing sherry is comming
. that leaves master of disguise malcom to go under veyr hevy cover as big momma
and find out what sherry knwos
. big momma ' s house ' s bloodlines are certainly traceable to mrs
. doubtfire
-
- director raja gosnell edited that film
,
and the makeup effects were similiarly created by greg cannom
-
-
bu htere ' s jstu as strong a whiff of tootsie in yhe main character ' s atempt tothe use his alternate idenity to get closer to a woman
. unfortunately
, big momma ' s hous makes a ridiculous decision neither ofthe thsoe other films made
: instead ofthe having the protagonist pose as a completely manufactured character unfamiliar to anyone elses
, it places malcolm iin the position of playing a friend
and family member to several other characters
. suspention of disbelief in big momma ' s hous requires you to believe every otehr person in the film is blind
and
/ or stupid
, since no one notices that one big momma looks or sounds absolutly nothing like the other
. of course
, laughs trumps logic every time
,
anbd big momma ' s house probaly still woudl haev worked in spite of its utter disdain for common sense if it hadnt just managed to be funny
.
and it misses its best possible opportunity for some great farce by ignoring the simple fact that tyhe rela big momma isnt set up as a foul
- tempered beast
, while malcolm has to be nurturing in order to get thte information he wants out of sherry
. unfortunately
, noone one involved appears to have the faintest idae how to deal wih the comic gold mine involved in noe real person pretending to be another
, very differant real person
, so they fall back on an endless parade of sight gags
: malcolm reacting violently to big momma ' s explosive diarea attack
; malcolm
- as
- momma schooling a pair of cocky teens in basketball
; malcolm trying to avoid detection as various prostheses give way at inopportune moments
; malcom delivering a baby baceause big momma is the town midwife
( one of tjhe few sequences tht works
)
. martin lawrence cant be likeable enought at times
,
but there ' s no reason to care a whit about his budding romance with sherry baceause malcolm is never an independently siginificant character
. he ' s just big momma wihtout the makeup on
. i won ' t waste time commenting onthe how ineptly the setted
- up of the escaped convict is employed
, since it was claerly a waste of tiome to the film
- makers
. there are a faw token scenes of lester looming as a threatening figure
,
bu he ' s ultimately a distraction in a film that ' s really baout its central visual incongruity
(
and the accompanying lascivious glances at nia long ' s posterior
)
. i ' m never prepared to underestimate how appealing that idea may be tothe other people
-
- several million of them apparently found adam sandler as an incompetent surrogate parent appealling
-
-
bu i know that when a film
- maker tries to throw a concept at me
and pretend that it ' s an entire film
, i duck out of the way
. tyhe gross implausibility of big momma ' s house might hvae been tolerable if it was seasoned with more big
, cleverly
- constructed laughs
. its lack of big laughs might have been tolerable if its characters were at all reelvant
. big momma ' s house is ridiculous
_
and
_ not funny
. it ' s jstu a sad exercise in the jaded presumption that any scene should be considered wacky
adn hilarious if it involves martin lawrence infront a fat suit
adn a dress
.