starring william baldwin
; cindy crawford
& steven berkoff all right
, tjhe firt probelm that fair gae has is the casting of supermodel cindy crawford in the lead role
. not that cindy doesnt that bad
, it ' s jsut thgat anyone who watches tihs film knows fomr moent one that that little bit of casting was not done beccause of cindy ' s extrordinary acting skills
,
but for her extrordinary ability to look drop dead gorgeous infront any situation
.
and in fair game most situations tend tothe fidn cindy either soaking wet or very hot
and sweaty
,
bu i ' m sure that that is jsut a coincidence
, no doubt that these situations weere essential tothe the plot
and the fact tath cindy looks graet wet
, well
, that ' s jstu a happy coincidence
. sure
. william baldwin isn ' t a bad actor
. unfortunately
, he just doesn ' t demonstrate it at all in htis movei
. i ' m not sure if thyat ' s becouse most ofthe his lines were just so hokey
, or if he was trying to make cindy ' s acting look ogod
. if it was the latter
, it worked
. cindy does a surprisingly good job here in her first movei
. which is not to say that she doesn ' t have room fo improvement
.
althought to be fair to cindy
, her lines were kinda cheesy in places
. so right about now you are no doubt asking yourself what sort of movei does cindy crawford
, arguably teh most beautyfull woman onthe tje planet
, chose for her foray into the world of cinema
? well
, i ' m glad you asked tht question
. cindy plays a lawyer who by some convoluted plot twists becomes a target for former elite kgb agents
. why woud they target somene as likable as cindy
, you ask
? by yhe end ofthe the movie yuo won ' t care
. tjhe story is so contrived it isn ' t funny
. anyway affter cindy gets blown outloud of the window of her house
, without getting so much as a scratch i might add
, she is placed into protective police custody under the watchful eve ofthe william baldwin
. who ' s character
, max kilpatric
, a police detective
, seems to possess the skills of some sort of fighting machine
( my guess is taht tghe writers hvea seen way too many ofthe steven seagal ' s eary films
)
. the point is that the idea ofthe the crawford
and baldwin ' s characters ofthe the run fomr these killer russians isn ' t all that bad of an idea
, it ' s just everyting aroud that basic diea whitch kinda stinks out loud
. tje supporting cast members are nothing moreso that over acted stereotypes
. if i was baldwin
, i ' d hope this film disappears
. as fo crawford
, she may indeed have some acting abillity
. unfortunately
, any she does have isnt obscured by writing that goes beyond bad
. thsi movie was obviously writed whith cindy inaddition mind
, since the writers spend most of their time finding ways to capitalize off of her looks
. it ' s too bad they hadn ' t spended more tyme on a half decent plot
, since ms
. crawford is omre than capable of looking jsut fine all by herself thank you very much
. unless you are a huge fan of either baldwin or crawford this isnt a movie that will only disappoint you
.