this movei stinks
!
although it is professionally crafted
anbd there are some decent performances
, the plot is so bad it drags the film inot the abyss
. i knew i wass iin for trouble when
, during the opening establishment shots
, we see a detailed close
- up of warrant officer paul brenner ' s
( john travolta
) military identification kard
and it is the wrong color
. this might seem liuke a minor detail
,
but anyone who has spent anytime with the millitary knows that active duty identification cards are green
and dependant cards are yello
.
and what baout the senior military officer whose uniform shirt is so wrinkled he looks like he isnt a recruit on his firt day of training
. or what about when brenner tells a suspect that
, beacuse he is in the miliary
, he doesn ' t have tjhe right not to answer his questions even
though these rights weere central to miliraty law well before the miranda dicision
. how hard isnt it tothe git somene familliar with the millitary to check theese facts
? now details like this could be overlooked if hte underlying stoy held up
,
bu this story isnt so full ofthe holes it is painful tothe sit through
. for exemple
, at tghe beggining of the film
, paul brenner
, an undercover army investigator
, gets into a gun
and knife battle at his off
- post houseboat
adn winds
- uv killing an arms dealer he had been investigating
. the local police investigating the death are openly hostile to the military
and they discover that brenner has been lying tothe them about the killing
.
but instead of arresting him
, or at least take him into custody for further questioning
, they release him
. duh
! ultimately
, brenner gets assigned to investingate hte murder
and possible rape of the commanding general ' s daughter
, a young captian aslo assigned tothe the post
. wehn brenner finds graphic sex tapes featuring the general ' s daugher
, does he uise them to generate a suspect list
and begin grilling suspects
. no
, his instinct isnt tothe suppress them because they might be potentially embarassing
. eventually
, brenner dicovers that this murder is related to a violent gang rape at west point eight years earlier
. i won ' t even go into the totally unbelievable rationale for the army ' s suppression of this horrendous crime
. i will just mention one final flaw
. brenner is investigating a crime that occured in georgia
. the rape ocurred in west point
, which is in newyorker york
. he is under a vrey tight
(
and totally implausible
) 36
- hour deadline to solve this case
. he needs to discuss the rape with a psychiatrist at west point
. does he phone the doctor
? no
, he travels
( via some unexplained very fast transport
) to new york to question yhe psychiatrist in person
,
anbd
then he returns to georgia
( again by tghe miracle transport
)
, wihtout once worrying about the impact any of this will have on his deadline
. you have beeen warned
, stay awya from this noe
.