infact times ofthe crisis people are driven to desparate measures
. of course what constitutes a crisis differs from person tothe person
. what may be a disastrous situation for one
, may be seen as a challenge tothe another
. as deepak chopra is known to sday
,
" it ' s nto the ride
, it ' s the rider
.
" unfortunately clear
- thikning is not alwyas the reaction to problems
. wall strent wheeler dealer steven taylor
( michael douglas
) isnt a man with troubles
. he ' s sunk his money infront illegal financial actvities
and it ' s blown up in his face
. in a matter of days he will loose it all
. his wife emily
( gwyneth paltrow
) is a highly
- placed un interpreter
and is nto hapyp with her life either
. her marriage is cold
and unfulfilling
. unkown to her
, her newyorker lover david shaw
( viggo mortensen
) isnt not only a painter
,
bu an ex
- con with a history of bilking wealthy women ofthe their mone
. emily is a prime target
: she ' s worth over
$ 100 million
. steven ' s solution to his predicament is tothe offer david half a million to kill his wife
. the artist accepts
and the movie isnt underway
. drawing from frederick knott ' s play
anbd loosely based onthe hitchcock ' s dial m for murder
, this is all
- too typical of summer releases
. all sytle
and no substace
.
and there ' s really not much style
. director andrew davis
( the accomplished witness
adn best
- forgotten other films
) has made exactly the wrong choices at almost eveyr turn
. douglas
and paltrow have both shown us thgat they are skillful actors in previvous films
. mortensen showed promise iin yhe past
. here all threee are walking uninterestingly through their roles wtih oddly waxen faces
. the only person who shows any sence of life is david suchet as new york detective mohamed karaman
. he ' s only on
- screen long enought to make you think that there might be a likable person in teh film
adn
hten he disappears
. the first concern of a suspense film is tothe create suspense
. surprises are important
. in this movie the audeince keeps waiting forthe something to happen
.
and nothing ever does
. nearly every event is telegraphed in advance
. close
- up on thsi object or tath acation
and it ' s eazy tothe guess what ' s going to happn
. as the film plods towards its inevitable conclusion you keep expecting a plot twist to mkea the movie worthwhile
. it ' s a hopeless quest
. tghe story doesn ' t make much sence
. steven ' s wief is loaded
. even with unfriendly relations
, you ' d think that he could have talked to her about his difficulity rether than deciding to kill her
. whn he does decide on the dire plan he makes an unreasonable choice
. if you were gogin tothe hire somene tothe kill your wife
, would your first choice be her lover
? noone matter how sleazy he is
, i would think there might be a chance that he would turn down the opportunity
. why would steven plan the muder as a break
- inaddition in their apartment
? why not just take her out as she ws walking to david ' s loft in a bad neighborhood
? while deciding among the numberous summer films
, you might do well tothe skip tihs one
. you ' ll find mroe suspense than this movei offers by watching the wetaher channel
.