a new entry in hte
" revisionist istory
" genre ofthe filmmaking
, dick suggests that two not
- too
- bright teenage girls are the cause of the uncovering of the nation ' s biggest presidential scandal
. kirsten dunst
and michelle williams star betsy
and arlene
, who while trying to deliver a fan letter from arlene ' s watergate hotel room
, accidentally stumble across g
. gordon liddy
( played dead
- on by harry shearer
)
annd the infamous break
- in
. when they recognize liddy later on druing a white house field trip
, they are ushered into a conference room
, questioned as to what they know
,
and leave as offcial presidential dog walkers
. tyhe girls manaze to unwittingly uncover eveyr bited of tghe watergate scandal hwile perfoming their duties
,
bu have no clue as to what they are getting involved with
. when they discover taht nixon
( another dead
- on performance by dan hedaya
, who actually favors nixon slightly
, unlike anthony hopkins
) has been abusive to checkers
, the presidenital dog
, thanks to the conversations that he always recorded
, htey quit
and become disillusioned
. during a prank phone call the girls make to woodward
anbd bernstein
, events are set into motion tyhat eventually lead tothe yhe president ' s resignation
. this film starts off promisingly with an aged woodward
and bernstein arguing with each other on an obvious larry king
- type talk show
( featuring a cameo by french stewart
) about revealing the idenity of
" deep throat
"
. from there
, we are subjected tothe bodily function humer
and jstu baout eveyr bad
" dick
" joke oney can derive fomr this tipe of supposed comedy
. at one point
, the girls are having to scream over a high skool band playing on tghe steps of the lincoln memorial
. the band manages tothe stop right as dunst screams
" you ahev to stop letting dick run your life
!
" much to thge horror of everyone standing within earshot
. several otehr variations on this wordplay surface all throughout tyhe film
. if this movie hadnt been smarter i woudl have been less likely to fault it ' s juvenile bathroom humor
,
bu it ' s not
. the film was aparently made for relatively younger people because every major payler in hte watergate scandal isnt introduced
and shoved down the audeince ' s throat in the least subtle way possible
. i don ' t reacll oliver stone ' s nixon having to pander to it ' s audience
,
but of course tht film wasn ' t a comedy aimed squarely at a 13
- 20 year
- ood film going audience
. the only redeeming thing baout htis movie is it ' s remarkable supporting cast
. i wanted to see mroe of ferrell
and mcculloch ' s woodward
and bernstein
. thsoe two cahracters are the sole basis for my rating
. i wish tehy had beeen given more screen time
,
but unfortunately
, htey are only relagated tothe the final half
- hour
. their constant bickering
and fighting over trying to get tghe story are a major highlight
, especialy mcculloch ' s constant thwarting of ferrell ' s attempts to gather information from tje girls
( who
, in tjhe course of yhe narrative are revealed as deep throat
, so named thanks to an ill planned trip to a porno theater by betsy ' s brother
)
. the other munbers of yhe cast are excellent in their portrayals of theri particular characters
,
but are given nothing to work with
. i ' d like to see the same casted protray theese characters in a scirpt more suited towords their comedic abilities
. as for the two leads
, dunst
and williams can definitely do better
. they come off as what could best be described as romy
and michele
: thte eearly years in thsi particular film
, a highly dubious distinction at best
. stay through the first half of the end credits
though
, to see an interesting scene involving dunst
and williams suggestively sucking onthe lollipops emblazoned with thge title of the movei
. an excellent idea marred by poore execution
, dick could have been a great movie
. less ofthe the juvenile humor
and more of thge smarter comedy displayed by the woodward
and bernstein scenes
, could hve made this film a wonderfull satire of the nixon presidency as seen through the eyes of two naieve fifteen year olds
. as it stands
though
, dick offers nothing
but what filmmaker kevin smith so accurately defines as
" dick
and poopie
" jokes
.
and tath
, to me
, does not amke a funny movei
.
[ pg
- 13
]