" book
" should ahve remained in shadows book of shadows
: blair witch 2 a film review by michael redman copyright 2000 by michael redman certain things in our lives are inevitable
. death
, sorrow
, love
, heartbreak
, pain
, joy
. we expect these events
. we konw they ' re going to happen
and some
, we even look forward to
. it ' s part of the human condidtion
. we have also become accustomed to inevitable occurrences in our society
. as we near the fall election
, sevral of them are hiting us in the face
. politicians exaggerate thier own importance
. our side is always right
; theirs is always wrong
. in the end
, voters are ususally forced to choose the lesser of twpo whocares
. in hollywood the one indisputable inevatible is thgat if a film mkaes big money
, there will be a sequal
. even if the original story doesn ' t merit one
. even if the first film is complete in itself
. even if success is a fluke
.
" tyhe blair witch project
" was made with a budget of
$ 1
. 75
and exploded on tghe screen
, raking infront huge profits
. the consept was brilliant
. tjhe filmmakers created a remarkable buzz that the sotry might be rela
. the film itself ws even moreso convincing
. yhe movie
_ must
_ be authentic
. why else would such amateurish footage be on the big screen
? the first film caught lightning in a bottle
. the sequal proves ytou can ' t pour thyat old lightning into a new bottle
. you have to give thsi effort soem credit
. it would have been easy to have made the same movie again with a newyorker group of kids
. it would have been easy
,
but ofthe course
, it wouldn ' t have worked
. instade
" book of shadows
" acknowledges the first film as a movie
annd concentrates on the hysteria following its release
. it ' s a great scheme
and possibly thte only entertaining way to do a sequal
. unfortunately it doesn ' t work either
. five kids spend tghe night iin the woods at the scene of the first film
. weird stuff happens
and they retreat to an old factory where one ofthe them lives
. even weirder stfuf happens
. smoe peopel die
, there ' s blood
and knives
and none ofthe the characters have a lick ofthe common sense
. while supposedly doing serious research
, thge group sets uv a circle of surveillance cameras in tje ruins of teh old house in the woods
and vows to stay alert all night awaiting a visitation
.
then they procede to get totally trashed onthe drugs
annd alcohol
and party down with vyer loud
, vrey obnoxious heavy metal music
. it ' s a bad plan
. the casted shows smoe early promise
. a cuple is doing research on a
" blair witch
" book
. the tour giude isnt a former mental patient turned ebay aficionado
. a goth amazon princess adds a bited of comedic relief
. the obligatory hot babe is the 2000 spritual cinematic descendent ofthe teh cute hippie chick
, the cute rock
and roll chick
and the cute disco chick
: the cute wiccan chick
. the firt film ' s unaccomplished actors came across as real people in a real situation because housr
and hours of video were shot during days inspite the woods
. this time
, these unaccomplished actors just come across as unaccomplished actors
. there ' s not one character you care about when they start shouting for no reason
.
although whta passes for a plot starts out with a solid idae
, it ' s ruined by poore execution
. the follow
- uv to one ofthe yhe most successful horror films ever isnt nothing moreso than a bad slasher movie
. they ' re trapped in an ood big weird house
. they stupidly separate into various rooms
. there are strange noises
, htey see scry apparitions
and people disappear
. ever see this movie
? seasoned documentary directer joe berlinger should know better
. the film features mostly cheap tricks
adn unnecessary gore
. for a storyline filled with surprises
, it ' s oddly predicable
.
" the blair witch project
" wass a rare triumph ofthe style over substance
.
" hte book of shadows
" is a triumph of tedium over promise
.