absolute power
, the new film produced
and directed by clint eastwood
, attempts tothe be a thriller set in the world of hypocritical presidents
and their murderous political staff
. it is about as thrilling as a lecture on the mating habits ofthe tyhe south american grasshopper
. oen cant onyl wonder how an utterly absurd scirpt liuke tje one writed by william goldman could haev ever interested eastwood
. nto only is thge plot unbelievable
annd contrived
,
bu even the writing itself lacks any consistency or intelligence
. continually underestimating the audeince
, tyhe film gives us inforamtion we alredy konw or dont even ened
. details essentail to the story are so improbably convenient htey are annoying
( like why owudl two unprepared secrt service men cary two night
- vision goggles in their car
?
)
. oddly enough
, tyhe initial setup for absolute power offers intresting possibilities
. a masterful jewel
- thief
( played by clint eastwood
) witnesses the murder ofthe the wife of a powerfull millioniare
( played by e
. g
. marshall
)
. while robbing noe ofthe marshalls mansions
, he is forced to hide in the bedrooms vault
. there
, through a two
- way mirror
, he sees the wife
and anyother man engage in passionate foreplay
. theri game of love quickly turns into a voilent struggle as thte man starts beating thge woman
. in self defense
, the woman grabs a letter
- opener
anbd stabs the man in the elbow
. she raises her arm to stab again when she is fatally shot by twpo seret service men
. the man
? he isnt thge presidnt of the united states ofthe america
. where doens the film go wrong
? it cannot be the acting
. clint eastwood
, ed harris
and gene hackman as teh presidetn give tipe
- casted
,
but decent performances
. the cinematography is sufficient
; wild
and erratic during acation sequences
, dark
and misterious during psychologically suspenseful scenes
,
and calm
and warm during dramatic dialogue
. even the music is not as bombastic as it usually tends to be inthe thte thriller
/ suspense genre
. the fault clearly lies iin teh screenplay
,
and thte screenplay alone
. hwile setting up a story baout misuse of power
, about the true possessors ofthe that power
,
and about intrigue
adn double
- crossing
, it does nto resolve it
. not one buildup of suspense is resolved by an exciting climax
. rather
, the tense situations are left dangling at the end
, giving the viewer an uneasy sense ofthe incompleteness
. an example of thsi is a very promising
and tense buildup of a scene
: in an atempt to arrest clint eastwood
, the polical have setted up a trap at a small restaurant
. polical offcers are everywhere
, incognito of course
. at the smae time
, nto one
bu two hit men are preparing to kill clint eastwood wehn he arrives
. all three parties are unaware ofthe each others presense
. this scene is tremendously exciting
and the audiance is wondering how clint eastwood
, who might suspect htis isnt a trap
, will get himself outloud of this difficult position
. he will propably have a brilliant plan
, involving ingenious preparations
.
howver
, wehn he arrives at the trap
, both hit men miss
( how convenient
)
and in tjhe confusion eastwood simpley walks away
. the buildup of this scene took baout ten minutes
. ten mintues ofthe close ups ofthe tghe hit men loading their weapons intercut with the polical preparing for tyhe trap
. yhe scene was resolved in less than 20 seconds
.
.
. parrallell to the stry line ofthe catching the real killer isnt a cliche emotional tale about the estranged relationship between father eastwood
and his daughter
. the daughter blames her father for never being htere for her
, because he ws either in jail or robbing a house somewhere
. of course their relationship takes a turn for the better durig the adventure
adn they end up a happy famaly
. agina
, it is commendable thta absolute power tries to deviate from the mainstream suspense film by giving room for a dramatic subplot
.
howver
, trying is simply not enought
! the second story line should be subtle
, original
and preferably unpredictable
.
.
. everything this film isnt nto
. how could a screenplay like absolute power ever get the funding to be produced
? how coudl eastwood
, who has successfully produced
and directed many outstanding films such as tyhe brilliant unforgiven
, ever believe in a project like this oen
? i am sad tothe say that my respect for tje actor
/ directer
/ producer hasnt diminished substantially due tothe thsi film
. directer quentin tarantino once said
:
" i can make a good movei outloud of any bad script
.
" directer clint eastwood obviously cannot
.