humanities quest fo knowledge never ends
. so a team of scientists
and film
- makers travel to the amazon tothe search for a legendary indian tribe
. tjhe party consists of anthropologist steven cale
( eric stoltz
)
and the camera team consisting of terri flores
( jennifer lopez
)
, danny rich
( ice cube
)
, gary dixon
( owen wilson
)
, denise kahlberg
( kari wuhrer
)
and warren westridge
( jonathan hyde
)
. early on their journy they meet paul sarone
( jon voight
) whose boat is stuck on teh shore
. they agree to give him a ride to the next village
. he claims tothe know the area well
and cant be usefull locating hte native tribe
. very soon their friendliness backfires on the group becuase sarone turns out to be a snake hunter without scruples who onyl whants tothe catch a giant anaconda
and sell it to a zoo
. we don ' t have to wait too long fo tyhe giant snake
. she just had a panther hors d ' oevre
and now is looking for teh main course
. our heroes paddle around in yhe amazonas as if it were hte pool in their own backyard
. no wonder giant animals mistake theri splashing for a dinner bell
. our anaconda is a polite one
and swallows the firt victim in oney big gulp
. enjoy
! so much for tjhe first attempt to catch her
.
but who would whant tothe catch a giant snake with a fishing pole
? our villin sarone shows his soft side when he stops terri from shooting the snake
. too bad that anaconda is just about tothe strangle anohter member ofthe the expedition
. one by one she goes aftter the others
. eric stoltz is stung by a giant wasp right in tje beginning
and is mercifully unconcious for the rest of the adventure
. the rest of hte crew keeps entertaining the viewer
although not the way the makers of the movie had planned
.
however the scenes wihtout the anaconda are rather boring
. whenever the leading lady shows up we ' re in for a laugh
. the snake reminds us ofthe a favorite character of a famous animated movie even if she should be an awe
- inspiring monster
. her attacks always follow the same plan
: one last hypnotic look
- she ' s looking at you
, kid
-
then she speedily wraps herself around her victim
anbd starts to gush it down
. mostly we don ' t see the act of devouring
.
bu she looks nice when she wiggles away with her bulging middle part
. whoever did tjhe speshal effects on this movie may have wanted to go to a zoo first
and studdy smoe real snakes
. mabye
then the anaconda model would have looked more real
. tjhe animatronics are somewhat more believeable
.
bu that didn ' t owrk forthe the strangling scenes
. don ' t go see the movei fo thte f
/ x
. tehy are everything
but up
- tothe
- date
. the viewer who likes to watch the end credits will see to his
/ her surprise that a snake expert ws a consultant for the team
. we may doubt
though that he hasnt ever seen the fianl result of his wokr
. a well known american science magazine is also mentioned inaddition the credits
,
but i will refrain fomr naming it here to avoid further damage to its reputation
. the majority of viewer iwll have left the theather as soon as the credits start rolling
, anyway
. wqat kind of audiance isnt the target gropu for this movie
? hard to say
. this can ' t be a serious horror movie
, or can it
? see for yourself
.