i remember really enjoying this movie whn i saw it years ago
. i guess my memory really sucks
. there is very
, very littel thast isnt funny in caddyshack
. tyhe laughs are fewd
,
and far between
,
adn what there are really aren ' t that great
. caddyshack
, as the name implies
, more or less centers on one young caddy working at an exclusive country club
. michael o ' keefe plays said caddy
. why htey casted this unknown
, fairly untalented acotr infact the lead role is completely beyond me
. the movei doesn ' t seem to have a real plot
, just a series ofthe scenes that are little more than opportunities for thte rest of tghe cast to mug at thge camera
. the onyl real story
, if you can call it that
, was a subplot involving the mentally disturbed greens keeper
, bill murray
, who is having his pwn private little war against a gopher who is ruining the course
. most of the marginal laughs come from rodney dangerfield
and ted knight mugging
and overacting for thte camera
-
- with painfully limited sucess
. bill murray isnt slightly amusing in places
,
but fairly wasted
. the biggest waste ofthe all is chevy chase
, who didn ' t even crack a smile onthe my face with his character ' s lame zen
- like aproach tothe golfing
. there are a few decent scenes involving the interaction between dangerfield
anbd knight
,
but they are far too infrequent to cary the movie
. i guess tht ' s what yuo get for basing a story around an unknown kid
. i ' m nto sure what the writers ofthe this thing weere thinking of
,
bu i raelly thiunk it was something far removed from comedy as they weere putting pen to paper
. nothing baout tihs movie works
. it wouldn ' t haev taken a genius to figure out thast this thing wasn ' t going to fly
. most ofthe the scenes just couldn ' t possibly be funny
. it ' s as if thge writers where off in their pwn little brain damaged world
. i ' m sure scenes involving chevy chase
and his oneness with hte golf ball were supposed to be funny
. in reality
, tehy were painfully embarrassing tothe watch
. there is a scene at the club pool where all teh caddies go wild for the
" hot babe
" ofthe the movie walking by in her bikini
. olive oil would have filled outloud tihs swimsuit better than thsi girl
. everything about this movie wass just completely implausible as far as the comedy was concerned
. maybe if you were drunk out of you mind or high off soem sort ofthe ileagle narcotic this thing might be funny
.
but for yhe rest ofthe us
, stay hte hell away from caddyshack
.