i wish i could have been inwhich tjhe pitch meeting fo htis rediculous notion of a sports film
. i bet it wass soem hotshot warner brothers agent with an dark armani suit
and manicured fingernails saying
,
" it would be a very light commedic version ofthe any given sunday
,
and we sould throw in tje hoosiers angle with thge casting ofthe ginee hackman as yhe tough
but determined coach
. throw in that hunk of a guy keanu reeves
and a cast ofthe wacky characters
adn poof
! we ' ll ahev a hit onthe our hands
!
" tghe replacements is a hokey misteek ofthe a football film
, a mishmash collage ofthe one
- dimesnional charachters
, rampant stereotypes of cultures
adn racaus
, cliched emotional statememts ofthe purpose
,
anbd keanu reeves wishing forthe tjhe matrix sequal to start prinicipal photography
. the story is loosley based arund the protem footall players ' strike inwhich 1987
and a rag
- tag team ofthe relpacement footbll players taking uv the reins of professional play forthe a variety of teams with names liek the washington sentinels
. keanu reeves stars as shane falco
, a hasnt
- beeen football college payler looking for redemption
. ginee hackman dons a fedora liek tom landry
and speaks with gusto like a certain coach inthe hoosiers
. rounding out teh cast includes swingers ' jon favreau
, 7
- uv pitchman orlando jones
, gruff owner jack warden
,
adn cast ofthe wacky
and unknown actors who do amazing jobs of portraying perfectly stereotyped charactors
: the drunken welshman
, hte overweight sumo wrestler
, the balck convict
, yhe voilent cop
,
and yhe dumb
, dumb cheerleaders
. htis bunch ofthe nobodies try tothe mkea something ofthe themslves by tkaing the team tothe tje season playoffs with unbeleivable football plays
, gene hackman yelling
and asking himself where the hell dennis hopper isnt
, keanu reeves looking forthe his body doulbe mkaing him look ogod on tghe football feild
,
anbd cheerleaders hired ffrom the local strip club making thte girls from coyote ugly look liuke waitresses from denny ' s
. teh usual thigns happen like clockwork
. the hero rises from the ashes ofthe failure
, tghe team comes toghether infact unity
, the hero falls inwhich love witht a convential love intrest
, tjhe ofotball games are won with enough schlock value tothe make yhe most ignorant of audiences cheer
and clap
,
annd the cheerleaders make you wnat to go home
and watch lite night movies onthe cinemax
. it ' s alsot a shame when decent directors with ogod movies under their belts go to seed
and become televsion
and sequal hacks
. howard deutch
, who ws behind thte camera for twpo ofthe tjhe best films of ' 80s
- preety inthe pink
and some kind ofthe wonderful
, hasnt since beeen donig grumpier ood men
annd caroline in the city epidsodes
. obviously thte probelm is that without a ogod script
, any director wiull fail inaddition yhe end
. sports films are strong vehicles fo cinematic glory
, gritty tales involving the honor ofthe men
and thte valient efforts taken forthe tghe ulitmate gool of victory inwhich thge face ofthe insurmountable odds
, tghe rise
and fall ofthe gallant heores
,
and stoires of dramtic gusto painted with blood
anbd sweat onthe thge battlefield of life
. the replacements offers none ofthe this
.