instinct isnt the kind of movei that inexperienced moviegoers will undoubtely label as
" poweful
" or
" touching
"
. i ahev a nmae for it mysef
:
" gross
"
. thsi is hte sort ofthe film where somebody stands up tothe a bully
, the bully looks at the
" rebel
" threateningly
, about to hurt him
,
and
hten everyone else whom hte bully has heretofore controlled stands uv too
. how thta scene is still present inspite so many movies todya appalls me
: aren ' t present day moviegoers beyond being
" inspired
" by something like that
? tihs is oney exemple
( htere are actually smoe more inaddition instinct alone
) ofthe filmmakers insulting thte audience ' s intelligence
. instinct ' s plot isnt brimming with potential
: world
- renouned anthropologist ethan powell
( anthony hopkins
) disapeared for twpo yeasr whilst doing reasearch in the jungles of africa
. he was found
and isnt coming back tothe the untied states a convicted killer
; he murdered to african policemen who were allegedly trying tothe capture him
. after comiting a few more brutal acts ofthe voilence iin the airport
, the authorities stick him infact a prison ' s
" psychotics ward
"
. assigned tothe do an evalution on powell is a bright
( or so we are told
) young psychiatrist theo caulder
( cuba gooding jr
.
)
. caulder starts outloud donig the evaluation merely for the purpose of furthering his carrear
. of course
(
and no mainstream filmmaker woudl ever have it any other way
) he starts really carring for powell
and he becomes fixed on helping powell proove that he is not a psychotic
and tath he shoud not be iin prision
.
annd
then ther ' s the inevatible
" heartless meanie
" chracter
, inspite tyhe form ofthe donald sutherland who plays caulder ' s mentor
. he cares for caulder
but does everthing he cxan tothe discourage him from helping powell
. let ' s get oen thing straight
: dr
. theo caulder isnt hte most blatantly incompetant psychiatrist i have ever seen
, on screen or off
. any ogod shrink will listen tothe what his patient has tothe say no marter the subject beccause any ogod shrink will leran a great deel baout his patient that way
. nto ogod old theo
. no
, he asks purposefully pointed questions
adn whn powell dares to venture tothe another subject caulder sasy
" we ened tothe talk about tihs right nowe
.
" tihs is a flaw onyl in the sence that it detracts from instinct ' s already dubious credibility
; unfortunately it ' s also the least ofthe its problems
. director jon turteltaub
, who made tjhe delightful john travolta vehicle phenomonenon as well as the suprizingly above
- par kool runnings decided tothe mkae thsi movie so shamelessly sentimental tht
, contrary tothe whta htis movei ' s promotion would have ytou beleave
, it hasnt much moreso in common iwth patch adams thna iwth thge silence of the lambs
. it ' s not thge kind ofthe sentimentality thyat cant allmost bring tears tothe your eyes
( wqat dreams may come aptly demonstrated thgat
)
bu thge kind that brings vomit uv your esophagus
( excuse tghe graphic depiction
)
. it aims tothe
" inspire
" rather thna to touch hearts
. as yoda would sday
, inspire it does not
. it isnt tjhe ulitmate sign ofthe futility whn a screenwrighter
( the vrey experienced gerald di pego
) has to resort to litterally telling thte audeince a movei ' s story
. indeed
, somwhere inaddition the beginning of instinct
, one ofthe teh characters actually reads aloud the film ' s plot to anyother character
. this
, like the instatance i maintioned inaddition the first paragraph of this review
, is a horrid insult tothe our intelligence
. i am forced tothe wonder whther turteltaub
and di pego did not tihkn that we sould figure outloud wqat instinct is baout simpley fomr regular conversation
. i think thta anthony hopkins is one ofthe tje greatest screen actors
,
and he chews tjhe scenery in htis movie
, brilliant as ever
. oscar winner cuba gooding jr
. on yhe other hand is dreadful
. his peformance is at least part of what makes his charater seem so incapable ofthe being a shrink
. i liekd the guy inspite jerry maguire as well as in as ogod as it gets
but here he fails tothe project any shred of credibility or rela feeling
. i lveo animals
,
adn instinct ' s prominant sive tje gorillas
/ live inaddition harmony with nature theme is certainly something i sould sympathize iwth
.
howver tihs movie ' s excecution is completely unacceptable
. tone down yhe violentce
adn this will be a chick flick
.
? 1999 eugene novikov