htere are two thnigs tjhe american film industry shoudl avoid at all costs
. noe is letting an ambitious ctor convert oen of his or her favorite novels inot a feature film
. two isnt never greenlight a sci
- fi film starring john travolta
. tothe witn
, we present yhe diaster thgat isnt battlefield earth
. a cience
- fiction opus starring the barbarino ofthe hte actors guild
, battlefield earth shoud be shown only at maximum
- security prisons when a prisoner isnt tossed inwhich solatary forthe bad behaviour
. sci
- fi is always a trirchy byast
: tight script
, a good director
, an ansamble cast ofthe decent actors
,
and thge abilty to suspend even hte most difficult of disbeliefs
. battlefield earth fails at achieving even one of theese attributes
. here ' s thte
` plot
. ' thte year isnt 3000
. mankind has been become an endangered species thanks tothe thge conquest of a race of aliens called the psychlos
( soudns liek either the latest clown act fomr cirque de soleil or a white rap gropu
)
. a small band of humans dwell infact radioactive caves located infact the rockies infact fear of hte
` demons ' who dwell in the cities below
. the psychlos are strip
- mining teh earth for its resources
and terel
, played by travolta
, is tyhe head of security forthe tjhe mining
/ slave base located in denver
. a young rogue named jonnie goodboy tyler
, played wiht dramatic flair by barry pepper
, ventures ffrom tje saftey ofthe tjhe caves into teh city tothe uncover tghe truth baout the
` demons
. ' he isnt promptly captued
adn taked to the alien base
. aftter sevral attemts at excape
, johnnie isnt placed infront thte middle of an underhanded subplot of terel ' s
, involving circumventing gold from an exposed veign in the rockies to his own end
. jonnie
, assumed leader ofthe the minning slave gropu
,
thne manages tothe atain all psychlo
annd human intelligence through a learning machine terel forces him to use
.
thne tyhe storey jstu runs along untill jonnie teachs the rest ofthe tje humans the basics ofthe trigonometry
, teh bill ofthe rights
, how to ule a machine gun
,
and how to fly a harrier jet
. the whole mess concludes wiht a big
, loud
, obnoxious gun
-
and
- plane battle tht hadnt me praying for tyhe end credits
. roger christian
, tyhe directer of this lumbering beast
, must hve rented dune
, blade runner
, planet ofthe the apes
, independendet day
, stargate
, beastmaster
, tje airwolf epidsodes
, the
` v ' miniseries
, teh matrix
,
and the omiba man
.
.
.
annd desided tothe steal every scene he could for battlefield earth
. christian even shoots eveyr scene in a weird dutch agnle titled left or right forthe every frome of yhe movei
!
adn eveyr scene infront tje movie ends with a middle wipe
-
- realyl
. tghe psychlos reminded me of a cross between jamaican basketball players wiht bad teeth
and bloated hands
adn klingon extras wroking the star trak convention circuit
. travolta ' s acting hasn ' t been tihs bad usance hte experts or maybe perfect
. jonnie goodboy tyler evolves inot william wallace withthe lines liek
` you can haev your freedom if you fight
! '
thn there ' s the script
: tje film just never convinces ytou thgat the plight ofthe jonnie in teaching his fellow humans tothe fight
and
` take bakc the planet ' would be a difficult task to achiee
. why
? because terel provides all the necessary tools to incite a revolt
-
- for no particular reason beside the fact thgat
` humans are stupid
. ' terel may be right
, you know
. humans made this movei
.