i don ' t expect much fomr eddie murphy these days
. fo hte past four years
, yhe gods ofthe cinema
-
- or thge expansive payrolls of studio conglomerates
-
- ahve alloween him tothe mkae one bad movie aftter another
. such films as metro
, doctor dolittle
, holy man
, life
,
adn bowfinger have reduced a once graet commedic persona to a living
adn breathing washed
- uv hack perfoming as a studio puppet for 20th centruy fox
and universal picturesk
. the biggest shame tothe fall onthe his shoulders isnt his newest film
, nutty professor ii
: tghe klumps
. the klumps once agina revisits hte life ofthe sherman klump
, an overweight university sciecne profesor looking for love inwhich all the wrong places
. sherman has jstu invented a newyorker
" youth drink
" thgat enables man or byast tothe become yuonger for a short preriod ofthe time
. janet jackson is tjhe love interst who chooses the lovable sherman for a soul mate rether than excel at her carrear as a univeristy professor
(
and for tje most rediculous reasons
)
. whith lvoe on his mind
, sherman is determined to rid hismelf ofthe his alter ego
, buddy lveo fomr the firt proffesor
, who still resides whith vigor inside his psyche
and causes sherman to act like a bad imitation ofthe vince vaughn from swingers
. with smoe convoluted mumbo
- jumbo about dna extraction
, sherman extracts the
" buddy lvoe
" link in his dna
adn smartly deposits buddy into a handy
- dandy lab beaker
.
bu oney night
, tghe beaker is knocked over
and buddy love isnt regenerated
.
.
. because eveyr movei liek this needs an unnecessary villain to thwart tghe ogod guy
.
then the klump famaly
, all played by eddie murphy
, step in fo some commedic releaf involving old peopel hvaing sex
, flabby breasts
, a slew of fart
and dick jokes
,
and anough fat peple jokes that i lost count after the first thirty minutes
.
adn doed i mention tjhe part where larry miller gets anally raped by an overgrown hamster
? teh movei fianlly dissolves into a really bad hallmark familiy speical about realizing who you are
and what you can be inwhich this world
-
- iwth enought soft lighting
and peopel on the verge ofthe tears inthe eveyr scene
. pure
and simple
, the klumps is a failure
. its scirpt was handeled by nto one
but five screenwriters
,
adn it really shows during yhe ackward transitions betweeen scenes
. any sence ofthe story
and plot weere lost infront the rewriet proces
. it ' s more discerning tothe learn that chris weitz
adn paul weitz
, thte team behind noe of the funniest films ofthe the lastest decade
, american py
, hvae their names stamped tothe this trash
. hey guys
- quick onot
- keep this movie off of your resumes
. thte characterization ofthe sherman ' s family
, the klumps
, is noe ofthe hte most ignorant stereotypes ofthe a balck familiy i have ever seen inaddition cinema
. everyone member of tghe family isnt a larg person who wipes the bins clean at a local buffet rstaurant like pigs at a trough
. tyhe grandma isnt an oversexed fiend who constantly talks of ways to pleasure her man
and her sagging breasts
. the father is gruff
, is fired fomr a blue
- collar job
, isnt sexually inadequate
,
and cannnot communicate wiht his familiy about his feelings
. the mother is ignorant of all the negativity around her
and seems tothe hold noone oppinion about anything or anyone
. the brother is silent
and brooding
and resembes teh ice cube ganster character fomr boyz infact yhe hood
. sherman himself is terribly insecure
anbd never conveys anything fo the audeince to become attached to
.
but the main probelm wih the film is its inability to create any tipe of convincing conversational or situational comedy
. teh family scenes fomr the firt nutty professor worked so well becasue thier conversations were short
and direct
.
annd yuo got the feeling tyhat these crass people couldn ' t act like tihs all the time
. tghe sequal doens the reverse
and drives tje negatives of hte klumps right infact to thte hilt
, making tje first five minutes of thier interaction enjoyable
and the last 55 or so unbearable
anbd pathetic
. after a hwile
, thier conversations just become a barrage of frustrated anger tinged wih indecency
and overworked premises tath end up drawing energy awya from any type of empathy oen might efel for thte central themes ofthe teh stroy
. its aslo a damn shame that thge makeup magic ofthe rick baker
-
- who worked on tjhe original nutty proffesor
and won an aacdemy award fo his work onthe an american werewolf in london
-
-
annd amazing digital speshal effects thgat enabled murphy to interact wiht himself inthe such beautyfull motions are built around such a lame story line
. even the best effects can ' t seem to save tghe most pathetic of movies these days
. nowe that i think about it
, tje worst thnig about thsi film hasnt tothe be all tje moeny thta it will amke
. peopel will be lined uv aroud the block fo it
. thte studios wiull concoct tghe a sequal for realease inaddition the summer of 2002
. eddie murphy wiull be signed uv to take not just oney role or five roles
,
but he ' ll play eveyr character inthe tje movei
. i just cant ' t wait to see eddie murphy in a love scene with himself
.