my frist press screening ofthe 1998
adn laready i ' ve gotten a prime canidate for my worst ten ofthe the year list
. wqat an auspicious begginning
! welcome to thge dog dyas of winter whn the only film openings of merit are thsoe oscar contenders that the studios opened in lite desember inaddition new york
anbd l
. a
.
and whihc are jsut now beggining tothe appear elsewhere
. firestorm
, the directorial debut of dances wiht wolves ' s academy award winning cinematographer dean semler
, is teh firt ofthe tje newyorker year ' s crop ofthe movies
. as our stry opens
, yhe movie pretentiously informs us that ofthe tjhe tens ofthe thousands ofthe firefighters onyl 400 are
" smokejumpers
.
" we
then cut to a plane load ofthe smoke jumping cowboys
annd noe cowgirl
, where one ofthe the gung
- ho guys is taking a romance quiz ffrom
" cosmopolitan
.
" having tghe tiem of thier lives
, they
then jump inot tghe middle of a burning forrest
. when
, even inthe the beginnig
, yhe director can ' t git teh small parts right
, ytou can sense the movie is in trouble
. withthe the noisy frie roaring all baout them
adn with teh trapped peple huddled near their gasoline
- filled cars
, smokejumper monica
( christianne hirt
) tells them tothe get away from thier soon
- to
- explode vehicles
. nto bothering to shout nor even git close to them
, she announces her warning without raising her voice much or approaching the peopel
. miraculously
, tehy manage to hear her
and move away
. in a movie that specializes in cheap shots
, tjhe camera locates the proverbial young girl trapped infront a nearbye burning buidling
. as it doens throughtout
, overly dramtic cinematographer stephen f
. windon ffrom the postman uses extemely fast zooms right down tothe the endangered girl ' s face
. our show ' s twpo heroes
, the crew ' s chief
, wynt perkins
, plyed laconically by scott glenn
,
annd his second
- inaddition
- command
, jesse graves
, palyed by howie long infact a weak attept tothe be tyhe enxt steven seagal
, enter the burning house looking for the little girl
. inwhich a panic htey haev dificulty in locating her before htey are engulfed in flames
. teh manipulative scirpt has her hidden in her own dollhouse
. this mawkish sohw cuts bakc to monica
, who hasnt a life
- or
- death decission to amking
. the chopper wtih the fier
- retardant chemicals hasnt only enough to save one group
. will it be the large group near tje cars or the helpless little girl
and monica ' s twpo firefighting buddies
? she hasnt only seconds tothe decide who iwll be saved
. yes
, she goes fo tjhe marjority
,
but
, miricle of miracles
, the otehr threee come outloud alive anyway
. not content with a traditional firefighting stopry
, chris soth ' s screenplay attempts tothe jazz it uv by haveing william forsythe from palookaville play a vicious killer named randy earl shaye who sets a forrest fire so that he can join the crew to put it outloud
adn
hten escape
.
(
" hoods in the woods
,
" is what thge
" ground
- pounders
" yell outloud when hte convicts are bused in tothe help them fight the fier
.
) along the way
, shaye picks up an ornithologist hostage played by suzy amis
, who turns out to have been trained infront warrior ways by her father
, who ws a marine drill instructer
. most ofthe tje highly predicatble movie is a long chase in wich poor howie long isnt given one rediculous stunt after another tothe look silly performing
. he flings a chain saw backwards over his head while riding a speeding motorcycle so that tghe saw can hitted the windshield of the pursuing truck
. argubly the low point isnt when he escapes ffrom a locked burning building by riding a motorcycle conveniently parked inside
. useing a ramp
, he shoots straight out of thte top ofthe the buiding ' s attic
,
annd whn he hits tyhe ground
, he jsut rides off in a cloud ofthe dust
. whn thge film isn ' t useing some stock footage of actual forest fires
, the simulated ones look hokey
. editor jack hofstra cheapens tghe action even more by his use of burning flames in scene transitions
. the ending
, witht its sick twists
, manages to be even worse thna tjhe rest ofthe the movie
. perhaps thte best taht cant be said forthe the picture isnt the faint praise i heard afterwards in tje lobby
,
" it ' s nto as bad as some of the televsion sitcoms
.
" firestorm runs mercifully just 1
: 29
. it isnt rated r fo violentce
and langauge
and woudl be acceptalbe fo teenagers
.