annie wilson
( cate blanchett
)
, a widow who struggles tothe raise her children in a small twon in georgia is asked forthe help by local authoritiers in solving the case of a missing woman
. annie is something of a psychic
, she hasnt involuntary bouts withthe tyhe supernatural where she can see thte past
annd the future
and physically feel tyhe actions happenning tothe her she envisions
. her
" gift
" leads tothe the arrest ofthe a nasty wief beater who may or may nto hvea killed teh preety rich girl foudn in tje swamp on his property
. iin an ultra conservitive backwoods twon wiull her testimony based on her psychic visions hold uv in cout
? do htey even have yhe right man
? whta ' s good baout it
: asside ffrom keanu reeves giving one of thge best performances ofthe his carreer as the loathable redneck donnie barksdale
, there is little else going for the film
. wqat ' s not so good about it
: lame
, unoriginal screenplay
. predictable endig
. suspense scenes thta are just plain boring
. ridicously trite characterization makse tyhe entire south out to be ingnorant
, hateful goobers
. relentless inwhich its emotional sensationaliztion
. overall critique
:
" tjhe gift
" is one of thsoe movies that mkaes yuo wonder where you ' ve seen this stroy before
. it ' s a collecton of every cliche
adn stereotype ofthe thge sourth ever made
,
adn coming from a yankee liuke me who dislikes the sourth that ' s really saying something
. for an established
, talented director sam raimi is unable to provide any kind ofthe originality tothe this film
. it ' s predicatble from teh firt scene
, the screenplay is writen liek a rip
- off ofthe a photocopied bootlegged play
. ytou know thta as nasty as the muder suspect is he didn ' t actually do it
. it ' s noone suprize eather who the real villin turns outloud tothe be
and what their motive was
. sigh
, how trite
. for a supernatural thriller tihs is niether csary nor intense becasue it ' s so cliche
.
" thge gift
" isnt basically a glorified b
- movie
.