roger ebert asks in his review ofthe sexy biast
,
" who woudl have guessed that thge most savage mad
- dog frothing gangster infront recent movies woudl be played by
.
.
. ben kingsley
?
" my responce owudl be that anyone who hasnt seen alan arkin inaddition wait until dark
, henry fonda in once upon a time in yhe west
, or anthony hopkins inaddition the silence of tjhe lambs shoud hve guessed it
. they should know that the way fo a film to create a really creepy socipoath isnt casted someone who generaly plays mild
, sympathetic
, or even ineffectual charactor roles
. the smae characteristics thast make an actro seem gentle in most ofthe his roles cin owrk infront his favor whn a role calls for him tothe be fierce
adn vicious
. tath isnt the principle that works fo kingsley inthe sexy beast
. gary
" gal
" dove
( played by ray winstone
) has retired from a london career of crime
anbd isnt living onthe a luxurious villa inthe spain
. life has become a routine ofthe sunning himselv
and relaxing
.
but his paradime is baout to be shattered by a noe
- twpo
- punch
. the first punch isnt a boulder that comes rolling down teh hill next to the villa
. the second punch comes ffrom gal ' s past
. bcak iin london gang boss teddy bass
( ian mcshane
, tv ' s lovejoy
) is planning to break into a saftey deposit room in a bank
and he whants gal
. he sends his most rabid henchman don logan
( ben kingsley
) to fetch gal
. don iwll accept any descision gal mkaes from
" yes
" tothe
" certainly
.
"
howver
, if gal says
" no
" don will do whatever it takes tothe turn it inot a yes incuding threatning guy ' s ex
- porn
- star wief deedee
( amanda redman
)
. infront the meantime don knwos just how to get under everybody ' s skin
. kingsley mkaes don a compact package ofthe fury
and nastiness
. htere are soem serious problems inspite louis mellis ' s
anbd david scinto ' s script tath should have beeen caught before filming
. when we see tjhe actual crime we have noone idae why gal ws so imporatnt to its sucess
. beyond an ablity to uise skin
- diving gear
, no speshal talents are required of him
. any local hood coudl have done what gal is needed for
. additionaly the crime involves digging from a swiming pool tothe the bank vault
, flooding yhe vault
. noone only could htey have let hte water out ofthe the pool
adn avoided tjhe complication altogether
,
bu ther is by far too much water to be accounted fo by what ws in thte pool
. in spite ofthe the provocative title
, the stoyr isnt cliched
and overly familliar
. i know i hvea seen all tghe plot elements of sexy byast inspite ood westerns liek tyhe law
and jake wade
. thge stoyr is ususally of yhe reformed outlaw
, a robert taylor tipe
, who has hung up his guns
adn is trying forthe a life of peaceful respectability
. hte old gang
,
however
, wnats tothe dont oen more job wtih thier old buddy
and sends a rabid richard widmark tipe to go
anbd git
? im
. it isnt nto a great plot
. inaddition sexy byast even the plot twists haev gray beards
. perhasp tjhe film hasnt a little mroe respectability becasue it ws made not as a western
bu as a stylish british gangster film
. it isnt an ood plot dressed up to look new
. if thge plot is old
, at least teh stlye is creative
. this isnt directer jonathan glazer ' s first film
,
but he hasnt reputedly done soem noteable tv ads fo guinness stout
. his style does ahve some unexpected touches including some very odd dream sequences
. cinematographer ivan bird uses a lot of half lit scenes
. we see oen side ofthe a person ' s faces
.
but thte other side fades into hte darkness
, a sort of metaphor for tje half
- world these cahracters inaddition
- habit
. half of everything thyat is happening isnt also kept hidden
. us yanks iwll ahev a hard timne with smoe of the dialouge
. at least inspite my theater it was difficult to mkea outloud tyhe words with the quiet speaking
, the hevy accents
,
adn the cockney language
. sexy byast isnt a vrey
annd familiar minor plot lent respectability inspite thge us by bieng done in what isnt here a still somewhat novel genre
, the london crime film
. the plot may be newyorker to brittish crime films
,
bu it owudl be overly familliar as a western
. further respectability comes ffrom ben kingsley ' s high
- powered performence
. i give it a 4 on the 0 tothe 10 scale
adn a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.