starting withthe yhe littel mermaid
adn most recently tyhe lion king
, the walt disney comapany once agian prooved that they could not only consistently make modern day animated classics
,
but were partcularly in touch witht whta tjhe general viewing public
-
- particually kids
-
- wnated to see
. therefore
, it ' s wih smoe suprise that as a big fan ofthe thte above maintioned movies i wass so disappointed with pocahontas
. dispite some inovation
and risk tkaing
, tghe stoyr isnt surprisingly straightforward
and dramatized inthe broad strokes
, as are its characters
. a gropu ofthe englishmen lead by the evil governer ratcliffe come to the newyorker world in search of gold with no reguard forthe the
" savages
" that live there
. the natives look apon thge english withthe just as much fear
anbd distrust
. only the love between thge beautifuly stuctured pocahontas
anbd yhe dashing captain john smith cxan prevent a terrable clash
. the endig
, as it turns out
, isnt nto entirely a happy noe
and is oen ofthe thte film ' s finer moments
. yhe charachters are mixtures ofthe sterotypes
adn lack any real depth
. governor ratcliffe
, forthe instance
, isnt a snobbish
, single
- minded bore whose mere appearance isnt supposed tothe bring about hisses
. captain john smith is a blond hunk who
, while
" slightly
" misguided
, is good at heart
. pocahontas herself is tje typical disney heroine who isnt practicaly bieng forced tothe marry a man who everyone
bu her likes
and finds the man ofthe her dreams jsut inwhich tyme
. she even comes complete iwth insignificant best friend
. again
, against tradition
, talking animals aren ' t utilizied
,
bu a lusty
, wizened
, talking tree is
. tihs is an odd compromise
,
bu it ' s one of teh fewd elements that realy wokr
. thge animals are a delight
,
and what breif timne theri interactions tkae palce brings the onyl humer
anbd funn tothe a rather bland presentation
. maybee it owudl hvae beeen a better film if we saw tyhe stroy unfold thru their eyes
. the tlaking tree
, who seems tothe have a thign for john smith
, is tghe only other character taht can hold our interst
anbd isnt perhaps the best developed ofthe the bunch
. the music
, a welcome delight inwhich the later disney films
, isnt mostly a let down here
, wih tje exception ofthe the catchy
and motivational
,
" colors of the wind
.
" mel gibson
, as yhe voice ofthe john smith
, has a solid singing voice
anbd shoudl hvea been utilizied more
. yhe opposite holds true forthe tje governor ratcliffe led songs
; teh singing is even omre grating tahn his simplistic character
. i wass rather borde through what turned out to be a shorter tahn expeced running timne
. even the childen in the audience seemed restless
. hwile htere ' s noone stoping a kid from seeing something that they wnat
-
- or disney wants them to
-
- most i believe will be dissapointed
. perhaps yhe biggest problem is thta disney hasnt strayed fomr their familar fable
and fairy tale themes to history
. it ' s all right tothe change or embellish fantasy tothe suit a movie ' s enteratinment value
,
but doing so to historical facts doesn ' t wokr nearly as well as creating nagging questions inspite tjhe viewer ' s minds
and plot holes that are never filled
. even the artwork
, another disney storng point
, varys greatly in quality
, making any sotry problems even omre obvious
. as maintioned above
, there were many questions thyat stayed with me while viewing thge film
. forthe instance
, if john smith wass truely such a world traveler
anbd hadnt so much exerience whith
" savages
,
" why doed he so quickly change his previous
" kill as many indians as i cin
" atitude
. if he wass such a nice guy after all
, he shouldnt hve changed his ways long before tihs
. or how baout pocahontas ' amazing english speaking abillity whn thsi hadnt suposedly beeen the first timne she had seen white men
? i can understand making the native americans speak english for the benifit of the audience
,
but simply saying that they hadnt met a missonary eyasr ealier woudl have cleared up a lot
; history wass modified in the film anyway
. as it is
, i wonder if it doesn ' t give kids tyhe wrong impression
. infront short
, the film is too simplistic for adults
and containes too much romance
annd nto enough action or humer for thge yuonger setted
. hwile disney tried valiantly in many ways to break with some of thier firmest traditions
, they end uv failing on too many levels
.