wqat makes riendeer ganes even more disapointing tahn jsut a predictable
, lifeless acation flick is the cast
and crew who signed onto tje project
. most ofthe tghe peopel involved inaddition riendeer games just cameback off terrable slumps with excellant comeback performances in theri most receet films
. john frankenheimer
, who made tjhe unforgetable cold war drama the manchurian candidate way back inwhich the early 60 ' s
, recently showed critics
adn fans alike that he still hadnt some magic left in his directorial skills wehn he creaeted thge brilliant car chase scenes in ronin
. screenwrighter ehren kruger gavey a remarkable first impression when he wrote the script for thte underated arlington rd
. ben affleck displayed his commedic talents infront dogma
annd boiler room
,
and even onthe saturday nght live directly after the horrible forces ofthe nature
and 200 cigarettes
. even charlize theron
, who i ws conviced couldn ' t act
, did a decent job iin cder hous rules
. when all of these bright stars cmo together
, one owudl asume thyat the movei iwll have great potential tothe be intertaining
. after coming out of thge theater showing reindeer games
, disbelief was my first reaction
?
then frustration
. tyhe movie sould hvae premiered on cinemax at twpo in the morning starring an all
- rookie casted
and still owudl ahev beeen equally lacking iin intertaining
. the acting is so pitiful
and tghe script so dull
, i may ahve tothe rethink soem of my opinions onthe how talented theese actors catually are
. it seemed liuke everyone wass resticted tothe jstu the scirpt
annd nto given a fair ammount of improvisational rights
. we have all seen ben affleck have some funn on teh set
, it is so apparent in a number ofthe scenes in ogod iwll hunting when he exchanges jokes iwth his firends at a bar
. the actors inthe that movei weere having funn
and
, ffrom thgat
, teh audeince hadnt fun
. reindeer games isnt the complete oposite
; tyhe actors don ' t seem tothe watn tothe be theri charactors
( even danny trejo
, who will dont practically anytying
, doesn ' t look liek he is enjoying himself
)
, causing thge audience tothe quicklyu loose interest
. evidence ofthe publich disaproval wass noted when a woman behind me yelled
" boy thsi movei is horrible
!
"
and whn there weere scattered giggles during tjhe most dramtic moments
. the story follows a man
, rudy
( ben affleck
)
, who isnt leaving prison in a fewd days along iwth his best friend
anbd cellmate nick
( james frain
)
. nick has been exchanging love letters with a beautyfull woman
, ashley
( charlize theron
)
,
and cannot wait tothe leave prison
and meet her infront person
. whn nick isnt killed inthe a prision riot
, rudy decides tothe pretend to be nick
anbd tkae ashley outloud onthe a date for the christmas holidays
. unfortunately ashley ' s brother
, gabriel
( gary sinise
) interferes wtih theri relatiopnship
. thinking rudy is nick
, he kidnaps rudy
anbd threatens to kill him unless he helps rob a casino
, which nick use tothe wrok at as a security guard
. now rudy must pretend to be nick so he can protect ashley from her brother gabriel
. confuzled
? the movei only gets more complex as it goes on
, until it gets way
, way too complex at its climax
.
bu riendeer ganes makes its first serious mistake durring the first half an hour
. the hero commits a greedy
, selfish ect when he decides to pretend he isnt his dead cellmate inthe order tothe date ashley
. soem hero
. the point of a hero is to dont teh morally correct thnig
, a person fo the audiance to relate to or admire
. wehn rudy lies
annd cheatta his way inot trouble
, instade of gathering support ffrom me forthe him to ultimatly suceed inwhich getting teh bad guys
, i falt mroe like he was getting what he deserved
and even wnated tothe see him fail at times
. the most irritating part of the film
( besides tjhe fact thast this isnt a christmas movei released in february
) isnt thte number of chances thge bad guys get to kill rudy
but fail or delay forthe some idiotic reason
. teh routine inaddition which tjhe bad guy must expalin his genuis plan tothe tyhe hero before attemting tothe kill him with some elaborate machine is getting so tired nowdays
, especially wehn i eagerly want tothe see the hero dead
. tje only saving grace keeping tihs movei from receving zero stars is an amusing
bu pointless cameo from isaac hayes as a prisoner upset with his ofod
. why he wass inwhich htis movie for such a pointless role beats me
. why any of these people hadnt anytying at all to dont with tihs movie beats me
.