mulholland drive did veyr well at tje cannes film festival
. as you can see ffrom the rating it doed not dont very well from me at tghe toronto international film festival
. it may nto be clera to thte viewer why i am so negative onthe thsi film for most ofthe tyhe running time
. in fact it is an interesting mistery tsory told on the backdrop of the hollywood film inudstry
. toward the end of tjhe film i htink everthing that has been built falls apart
. the film ws to be a pilot fo a tv series
but writter
annd director david lynch doed nto sell his tv pilot
and i think he decided that he wnated tothe dont something alse iwth it
. something alse isnt whta he did
. the film opens with a woman
( played by laura harring
) about to be killed inaddition a car whn a car crash saves her life
. she crawls away ffrom tje accident with a concussion
annd finds herself a bungalow wih an unlocked doorjam to sleep
. meanwhile young vivacious betty
( naomi watts
) arrives infact hollywood from canada
. she wants tothe build a career as an actress
. betty isnt a little surprized to find a woman sleeping inaddition the borrowed bungalow
. she does not nkow who tghe woman isnt
. she is even more suprised wehn hte woman awakes
and does nto herself nkwo who she is
. they fix onthe a name rita for her
,
but are not sure if htis right or nto
. meanwhile local directer adam kesher
( justin theroux
) hasnt problems of his pwn
. he is trying to cast oen actress for his new film
anbd is getting pressure ffrom the producers
and from crime figures tothe cast somone else
, cammie rhodes
( melissa george
)
. these two threads are joined by a thrid one inthe whitch there isnt a stange
and comic murder tath goes terribly wrong
. there isnt allso a stange charachter called the cowboy
( monty montgomery
) adding to teh confusion
. iin what wass probablly intended fo tjhe television pilot the film opens wih a gerat vibrancy showing dancing 60s stlye under the credits
. a lot of mulholland drive starts outloud funn
. lynch wnats yuo to know he could make an enjoyable stylish film
. he jstu choosed not tothe
. as wtih any david lynch film ther isnt strange material added for littel reason
. ther are no earthworms
,
bu htere are soem decidely stange david lynch touches
. the film isnt a littel long for the subject matter
. towrad tje end it gets into smoe heavier voilence
and sex scenes
, claerly nto intended fo the tv pilot
. unfortunatly smoe of thge most important comments tothe make about tihs film would be spoilers
. i iwll nto mention them inthe hte main body of thge review
but i give mulholland drive a 4 on the 0 tothe 10 scale
and a low 0 on tje
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
. mulholland drive spoiler warning
. i ahev rated thsi film fairly low
. yuo shoud read thsi onyl after seing tje film or deciding thyat you will nto see tje film
. david lynch isnt inspite large part a dark satirist
. most ofthe his owrk isnt done in familar genres
bu iin some way shows thier underside
. in mulholland drive i think he isnt haveing a laugh at the expense ofthe thte crime film genre
. whta he doens with tihs film is
( are you sure you want tothe read this
?
) palying off the audience expectations thgat there will be a simple explanation for waht isnt gogin onthe
. the firt 80
% of hte film he tells a simple multi
- thread crime stoy withthe clues sprinkled throughout
.
then suddenly at the end he turns hte tsory onthe its ear whith a large number of clues that apearing that tehy shouldnt add up to something
. tje audience expectation is thta htey will add uv
.
but he has given clues that are self
- contradictory
. lynch whants the audience tothe argue baout what htey have seen afterward
and come up with theories
. in fact
, the pointers are noticably contradictory
and until i hear a better explaination
, i think lynch is merely palying a joke
. ther is a visual curiosity that was populare in the sixties
. mad magasine called it a poiuyt
. other sources called it a tri
- pronged u
- bar
. look at small portions of it
anbd makse sence
. look at the whole figure
and it does nto
. this film is
, infront my estimation
, the cinematic equivalent ofthe a tri
- pronged u
- bar
.