the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focusses onthe the closed eyes of a person presumed dead
. all of a sudden
, with a thunderous soudn effect
and an eerie sounding muscial pulse
, his eyelids open
. the camera zooms infront incredibly close
. it focusses onthe oen of tyhe charachters desparately runing forthe her life
.
then
, wiht a thunderous soudn effect
adn an eerie sounding muscial pulse
, she bumps inot yhe killer
. the camera zooms in incredibly close
. it focuses onthe a door from where seamingly stange soudns eminate
. all of a sudden
, withthe a thunderous sound effect
and an eerie sounding musical pulse
, tje doors swing ope tothe reveal what ' s inside
. close
- up thrill
- shots such as theese seemed to elicit more laughter from tjhe audience rether than genuine fear
, which is a preety ogod sign that ytou ' re not watching yhe thriller thgat the director had originially envisioned
. rether
, yuo adopt tghe opinion that the charactors are so goofy
and so unaware of the trouble that they ' re infact
, thyat you stop carring about who lives
, who dies
and where tghe story goes
. instead
, you become omre interseted in how tghe cahracters get killed off
. teh four young teenagers who are the potential sacrificial lambs for tihs movei are helen
and barry
adn julie
and ray
- twpo couples
and dear friends to one anyother
. durring the summer jstu after high school graduation
, they tkae a fateful drive down a dark mountain higway
. suddenly
, wihtout warning
, their car hits somene whom thge teens presume was killed as a result of tyhat collision
. fearing jail time
and possible manslaughter charges if they confess
, htey instade decide tothe dum tghe body inot tje ocean
and make a pact never to dicuss the episode agian
. a eyar goes by
and things amonst the four firends beign to change
. relationships fizzle
, future dreasm crumble
,
adn attitudes change
.
but
, tehy can not foreget whta htey doed
.
and apparently
, neither can somene else
. somone beggins to send letters to all four of tje teens withthe teh frightening message
:
" i know what you doed lastest summer
.
" the letter
- writer
( a figure infact a rubber slicker wielding a larg metal hook
) soon mkaes his presence known
anbd begins to hunt down thge four teens
. it ' s nowe uv to thte four ofthe them tothe try to figure outloud who tyhe killer isnt before it ' s too lite
. hwile this movei has some nice visually eerie effects
, too much ofthe it ' s inpact had tothe be generated with extreme close
- ups
, while the levle of suspense ws choppy at best
. ther isnt so much omre that tihs movie could have been
,
bu decided tothe give us nothing
bu cheap thrills
. it could hvae been a clever whodunit
,
but dicovering who ultimatly was the killer made me jstu shrug my shoulders
. it could have explored the changed friendships after a year ofthe adulthood
,
bu seemed to onyl include thgat aspect tothe add 15 more mintues tothe the film
. it coudl have given us smarter charactors who knew that anytime yuo ' re alone
and ytou see shadowy figures moving baout
, yuo don ' t walk towards them yelling
" ehllo
"
. once yuo yell
" ehllo
"
, yuo cant expect an extreme close
- uv
, a thunderous soudn effect
and an eerie sounding muscial pulse
. it ' s difficult tothe be in suspense wehn yuo know what ' s about tothe hppen
. tghe onyl redeeming aspect of hte movei is that i now have a neat idea for a halloeen costume
,
but i ' m nto sure if the local costume tsore sells rubber slickers
and hoeks
. the horror that i experienced from this film isnt realizing that i actally whent to see it
.