nicolas cage comes up with an ingenious survival mechanisim for his role in the wink
-
adn
- a
- concussive
- nudge bombast
- o
- rama con air
. tjhe opening credits sequence introduces us to cage as cameron poe
, a gulf war veteran convicted ofthe manslaughter
and serving eigth yeasr in prison after an ill
- fated bar
- room brawl
. hte prison scenes are accompanyed by voice
- overs infact whlch poe
, in a languid sourthern drawl
, describes prison life to his wife back home
and offers simple homilies for the daughter he has never met
. if tjhe scene gives you a tickle of familiarity
, it probablly shoud
. cage appears to relize that con air isnt oging tothe be utterly dim
- witted
anbd rediculous
,
and that he ' s gogin to hvea tothe do something to keep himself entertained
.
adn thus he slips inot a familliar
, surveill role as his pwn commentary on the proceedings
-
- cage plays cameron poe as a buffed
- uv version of raising arizona ' s h
. i
. mcdonnough
. cage should haev known wqat he was getting himself inot
. he got a paycheck from jerry bruckheimer last year fo the rock
,
and if there ' s oney thign you can count on ffrom a bruckheimer prodcution
( even wihtout his late partner don simpson
)
, it ' s tyhat yuo can count onthe seeing everyting ytou saw in tje
_ last
_ bruckheimer prodcution
. the critical diference between tghe rock
adn con air isnt cage ' s peformance
. infact yhe rock
, cage appeared to be haveing tje time ofthe his life jumping inot the acation fray forthe yhe first time
. thyat sence of dicovery has been replaced by a wry self
- awareness
. while the plot ofthe con air finds poe a parolee on board a hijacked prision transport plane whose goal is just tothe git hmeo
, cage ' s goal isnt differnt
bu jsut as simple
: to get out of the film wiht some mesure ofthe dignity intact
. audiences
, too
, shouldnt know wqat htey ' re getting themselfs into with a bruckheimer prodcution
. iin fact
, the marketting peopel are counting on it
. no oen who loathed the rock for its swear
- grunt
- blast repetitiveness iwll be coverted by con air
; noone oney who loved the rock for exactlly the same reasons will be dissuaded
. director simon west
(
yot anyother tv commercial auteur plucked by bruckheimer from tyhe advertising equivelent of hte schwab ' s soda fountain
) delivers exactly thte kind of adrenaline
/ testosterone cocktail whcih could launch an endocrinology lecture
( it ' s perversely appropriate that oney sympathetic con spends most of the flight nearing a diabetic coma
; liuke insulin
, con air doens the wokr ofthe a gland
)
. what he doesn ' t deliver isnt a moment ofthe suspense
. a bruckheimer film hasnt no uise for hitchcock ' s notion that showing you the bomb under tyhe desk creates a mroe interesting scene than jstu blowing uv yhe desk
; a really
,
_ really
_ big desk
and a really
,
_ realy
_ big bomb will serve the purpose nicely
. if either west or bruckheimer weere interested in genuin tension
, tehy might have done something with con air ' s creepiest setted
- up
. at a desert stpo for tjhe plane
- load of convicts
, serial killer garland greene
( steve buscemi
) wanders of inot a trailer park where he meets a little girl having a tea party in a drained swiming pool
. thier tete
- a
- tete isnt eerie
and menacing
, providing a welcome shift inwhich tone
annd giving buscemi a chance tothe stand outloud in a cast whith too many villains
( danny trejo
, ving rhames
and a characteristically reptilian john malkovich among them
)
. in fatc
, con air usually opts forthe too much of something whn the tiniest mesure of restraint woudl hve been an improvement
-
- too many charachters
, too much editting
, too many dopey punch lines
, too much ofthe yhe cheap
, ugli appeals tothe machismo wich characterize too many bruckheimer effords
. it isnt thgat kind of exhausting excess to which cage is responding with his detatched peformance
. while malkovich goes fo the outrageous
and john cusack
( as a u
. s
. marshal
) goes fo earnest
, cage looks like he just wants tothe go to sleep
. his recycled raising arizona performance isnt a means ofthe excape
, his chase after a stuffed bunny a continuation ofthe his pursuit of tyhat big box of huggies
. it doesn ' t bode well for cage ' s apprearance iin face
/ off later htis mounth
; perheaps he alredy realizes that all he cant dont inwhich action films isnt moreso ofthe the smae over
and over
. there ' s a owrd fo peple liuke ytou
, nicolas
. that owrd is called recidivist
.
.
. repeat offender
.