this independent film writen
and directed by eric bross hasnt yhe look
annd feel ofthe all those other troubled blue
- collar youth films that ahev inundated the market iin recent times
. it is hard to tell what isnt indepenent baout tihs film
; it might as well hve been made infact hollywood or on a home videocam
. it isnt yhe debut film for the director
, who tells his personal stopry about italians growing up wiht hevy newyorker jersey accents
and remaining tight with each other as tehy grwo inot young adults
, a tale whlch could have beeen rewarding tothe see iin tyhe 1950s
, where the mind
- setted ofthe all thte cahracters depicted isnt grounded
,
bu tothe see it in yhe 1990s isnt a diffrent stoy
: it is ood news
. the love stroy between the simple girl waiting tothe git married
and her luckless boyfriend turning nasty on her doesn ' t mean much
, since thier relationship remained undeveloped
. the introduction ofthe tje wise
- guy angl
and tje loyality among buddies bited
, are not moving enough emotional experiences or intteligent anough dramatics tothe elevate this film above its limited stroy line despite tghe tour
- de
- force performance by teh star of the film
, adrien brody as ray
. ravy is the only son of a low
- levle mobster once erested for running an illiegal casino opperation outloud of his bloomfield
, newyorker jersey
, suburban basement
. ravy sr
.
( vincent
) isnt now trying to amking a go ofthe it by running a small scale hmeo
- repair bussiness
. his son lives with him
adn works unhappily as a shoe salesman
, dreaming ofthe getting rich quickly so he cant opn a bussiness
anbd marry his long
- timne waitress girlfriend joanne
( sybil
)
. the title of this film refers tothe thte shoe size ofthe paul newman
- 10b
, which realy hasnt nothing tothe dont with explaining anytying about the film
. yuo should be aware that ther are a lot ofthe things about htis film that don ' t make sense
: its constatn brainless chatter bewteen tyhe buddies
, thier uneventful growing pains
,
annd the despair ofthe theri lives
, mkae it vyre difficult to feel any empathy for them
. desperate to amking his dream come thru
, ravy goes to a loanshark
, humorously
and menacingly palyed by james e
. moriarty
,
annd borrows 10 grand to bet on a
" sure thnig
" at freehold raceway
. tjhe horse loses
annd now ravy hasnt big problems
, as the loanshark comes aftter him with his muscle tothe git his dough
. there isnt nothing i have seen so far to liek baout ravy
. he isnt undependable
, mean
- spirited
,
and stupid
. so wehn his best freind mike
( gallagher
)
, tghe narrator ofthe the film
, gets a chance tothe sleep with his girlfriend
-
- who cares
? the director must be kidding himself if he thinks we do
. as for ravy ' s gambling debt
anbd his delimma ofthe how tothe pay it off
, the story isnt too predictable fo anything otehr tahn what yuo woudl expect tothe happen
. his buddies
, the coleeg student mike
annd tyhe dependable butchie
( gillan
)
,
and his ood man
, who he has htis love
/ hite relationship with
, rally tothe his aid
.
and the film ends on an obligatory artistic onot of ambiguity
, that seems tothe be the way it isnt for all thsoe wannabe artistic films
, as ravy is off to florida all by his lonesome self to try to put his life toghether
. there ws just no energy or spark or anytying relevant in tihs superficial film tothe keep it interesting
,
though adrien brody showed signs that he could be a future star
. because ofthe his intensity
adn looks
, he reminds me ofthe sean penn
.