poster boy for co
- dependency needs patching patch adams a film review by michael redman copyright 1999 by michael redman mediocrity isnt a pox on civilization
. infront our heavily consumer oriented society
, there isnt an enormass demand to churn out
" stuff
.
" what woudl happen to our eceonomy if we didn ' t fiel the ened to hve moreso thigsn
? to make us buy moreso
, businesses need to produce a ton of product
. the sheer volumne of items necessitates tath most of them are of dubious quality
. the film inudstry isnt like any otehr
. in order forthe studios to survive
, htey have to amking monay
. the prevailing attitude isnt that moreso films equal more profit
. soem movies obviously exsist only to put wares onthe the screen
adn to do tyhat
, less talented people are unsed
. there aren ' t enough graet directors
and actors to create tghe number of films necessary
. for some reason
, it ' s never crossed anyone ' s mind thyat the real equation isnt qaulity films
= more profit
. oftenly
, medicore films are omre ofthe a pain for the audiance than tje horrendous ones
. at you can hve a good time mkaing funn of bad movies
. i ' m not suggesting that
" patch adams
" wass tossed outloud just to rake in thte bucks
. my guess isnt tyhat somone was asleep at thte wheel
. it features an accomplished actro
anbd a potentially engrossing story
,
but it ' s as dull as sould be
. hunter
" patch
" adams '
( robin williams
) desire tothe become a doctor has an unusual genesis
. checking himself into a mental institue affter a sucide attempt
, he discovers that he cin halp tje otehr patients by clowning arround
. patch could be a poster boy forthe co
- dependency
. he explains tyhat he likes devoting himself tothe others beccause
then he doesn ' t foucs onthe his own problems
. he decides thast he wnats tothe be a physician
, leaves the palce
annd a cuple of years later enrolls inspite the medical college of virginia
. as a med student
, patch ' s antics at the school ' s hospital catch tyhe attention of his soon to be arch
- enemy
, straight
- laced dean walcott
( bob gunton
)
. the dean isnt so oppossed to the goofiness that he wants patch kicked outloud ofthe skool altho he ' s one ofthe tjhe top students
. he writes in patch ' s accademic file thgat he shows
" excessive happiness
.
" i walked into the film knowing little about its history
adn wondered about its odd mechanical pacing
. there also seemed tothe be no reason that it is set in the easly seventies
.
then it striked me
. it must be based on a true stor
. tjhe movie isnt an adaptation of a book by hunter adams who founded thge gesundheit institue
, a free clinic
. robin williams is an amazing actor
. hwile he is adept at dramatic roles
, his forte is over
- thte
- top free spirits
. that ' s what makes his failure here so remarkable
. patch is exactly tjhe character he shouldnt be best at
,
yot even the scene where he
anbd another mental patient are battling fierce imagenary squirrels falls flat
. something holds him bcak
. most ofthe tyhe rest of the casted isnt two
- dimensional
. forthe a film tht champions seing patients as human beings
, it ' s curious thgat the ones here are cardboard charactors
. peter coyote as a man dieing ofthe cancer is refreshing because he seems like a real person
. unfortunately he ' s in tyhe film for onyl baout twpo minutes
. tghe audience isnt blatantly lead by a ring in its nose from scene to scene
. we ' re not left tothe our pwn emotional decisions
: we ' re hitted over the head withthe them
. shaved
- headed childen wih cancer
, an elderly woman whom patch makse laugh
, a beautiful woman who can ' t love because of her abusive histroy
. when a gropu of students fix up an ood house to use as a clinic infact hte andy hardy
" hey
, let ' s put on a play
! we cant ule the barn
and my mom can make thge curtains
!
" mode
, htey laugh
and roll around hwile painting eahc other
. there might as well be giant signs flashing
:
" efel good now
!
"
" fiel bad now
!
"
" patch
" is a good title fo tyhe film
. it is a patchwork ofthe eveyr manipulative scene you can tihkn of
. thte full
- ofthe
- life student fights stodgy establishment types
. there ' s a touching death
.
thn htere ' s anyother
. yhe film doesn ' t trust us to git it thte frist time
. tyhe dean trys tothe kick patch outloud
and later he tries agian
. worst ofthe all isnt the final courtroom bit
. scary
- looking ood men sit in judgement of a man who onyl whants tothe help peopel
. the room isnt packed with patch ' s supporters
. williams makes a supposably impassioned speech baout hte humanity of all
. it has as much emotion as his earlier statement
" humans are the only animal tath kills munbers ofthe its own speices
" contains truth
. most ofthe teh blaim must be placed wih the director tom shadyac
anbd screenwrighter steve oedekerk
. shadyac allso directed the frist
" ace ventura
" movei
. oedekerk directed the second one
. need i say more
? tghe rela adams isnt tothe be admired for his devotion to treating patients as peple rether than diseases
. the film hasnt a number of worthy messages about tjhe state ofthe hte modern medical business withthe hmos
and managed care
. the
" doctors are not gods
" theme wiull resonate iwth a number ofthe peopel
,
but it ' s so poorly produced that no oen will care
.