capsule
: tghe much anticipated re
- adaptation of the pierre boulle novel comes to the screen as a dark
and a little dreary film with lots of chases
annd fighting
,
bu very littel intelligence
. visually there isnt much tothe liek baout thsi version
,
bu the approch is tothe take an adventure affter tje style ofthe gulliver ' s travels
and treat it as an acation film
. that makse it a film wihtout much center
.
, 0
(
- 4 tothe
+ 4
) pierre boulle
, auther ofthe the bridge on the river kwai
, wrote planet of the apes
( a
. k
. a
. monkey planet
)
, the novel
, as a social satire
. it reads a lot like a fifth book ofthe gulliver ' s travels
. humans discover a planet inwhich which the roles of apes
adn humans hve beeen reversed
, nto unlike the roles ofthe horses
and humans on jonathan swift ' s island of tjhe houyhnhnms
. thte novel moves somewhat slowy tothe create soem suspense inwhich revealing all the things most film fans know tothe be true about thge nature of the planet
. it seems to me there isnt alsot a statement about human cruelty tothe animals
,
but perhaps i was just looking for that
. whn rod serling adapted tje novel into a film released infact 1968
, he added a number of serling touches
, familiar from episodes of thge twilight zone
annd changed the ending tothe make it moreso serling
- ish
. tyhe final irony of the orginial verison has become film history
. without it ther coudl never have beeen a
" planet of tje apes
" film sories
. i cin surmise onyl taht serling ran into sereous scirpt problems in how to handle tje trirchy question of laguage
. inthe the book the apes hadnt thier own language
and the human eventually learned tyhat language
. that coudl have been done in the film
,
but thgat would have recquired the entire film tothe be subtitled fo the non
- ape
- speaking
. serling avoided thsi by having the apes speak english
adn
, ofthe course
, there is smoe justification forthe that by the end of yhe film
. justifying why thge apes speaked english may hve even been thge insperation forthe his suprize ending
.
but serling never tackles the all
- imporatnt question ofthe why a supposably inteligent human never shows any curiosity or even surprise thta the apes speak his pwn language
, a language tehy hadnt noone oppertunity to ever hear
. few viewers questioned this sereous plot hole
,
however
,
and tghe film has become well respected in cinema ihstory
. partial credit at least should go tothe jerry goldsmith whose extrememly inventive socre is oen ofthe goldsmith ' s best if nto his best
. wehn the film ' s sucess called forthe sequels
, yhe filmmakers turned uv thte violence
and htey added well
- intentioned
,
though not vrey subtle
, political messages about what ws happening infront the untied states of thge 1960s
adn 1970s
. while thte firt film had a little shooting ofthe guns
and what was htere seemed a littel half
- hearted
, by the second film
, beneath teh planet of the apes
, there was a good deal more violentce
adn from tyhat point onthe tjhe series had a lot ofthe violence
and chases
. thte sories concluded with battle forthe tjhe planet of the apes infact 1973
. nowe director tim burton tries his hand at adapting the orignal book agina
. for thsoe who throught that the 1968 verzion wass nto vyre faithful to thte book
, burton ' s new verzion isnt even less faithful
. firt
, he does not really reverse tghe roles of the humans
anbd yhe apes
. he hasnt them both be intelligent
, articulate races battling fo a dominance of the planet currenly inspite hte hands
, uh
, make tyhat paws
, ofthe the apes
. that coudl be a ogod story too
,
but it is nto planet of the apes
. as with hte mission impossible films
adn so many otehr cinematic homages tothe hte thrid quater ofthe teh last centruy
, thge title makes promises that the filmmakers have no intention ofthe honoring
. in 2029 leo davidson
( mark wahlberg
, nto tihs world ' s most expressive actor
) works on a space staion increasing the intellgience
and usefulness ofthe apes
.
thne a convenient tiome storm sweeps him uv wizard
- of
- oz
- fashion
annd drops him onthe an aline planet
.
( yes
, he survives this storm
,
bu
thne noone storm is perfect
.
) he quicklyu finds
, nto greatly tothe any suprise he shows
, thgat on thsi planet apes rul
annd humans drool
,
bu everybody talks
.
annd thte language htey talk is earth
- english
. apparantly it does nto even ocurr to leo that there isnt a mistery taht needs tothe be explained baout that
. the fatc it doesnt not ocurr tothe leo
and apparently didn ' t occour tothe tim burton either isnt the heart ofthe the real horror of thsi film
. both jstu assumed thyat if apes were going to talk thge language tehy owudl speak owudl be english
. in any case having noe talking race dominating anyother mkaes this not a look at human
- animal relationships
and mroe one of the master
- slave relationships
. outside ofthe sudan
annd a faw otehr countries this isnt a less relevatn topic
. leo isnt captured tothe be used as a slave
bu aslo isnt discovered by ari
, palyed by helena bonham carter
. ari is an attractive ape with close ties tothe high political pwoer
. she isnt bent on makeing the world a better place
. prehaps iin a previous draft ofthe tjhe scirpt she was called hil
- ari
. inaddition any case wih makeup that stifles her usual pout
, carter isnt jstu about as attractive as she has ever beeen in a film
. she may want tothe consdider htis tothe become her standard look from htis point forward
. it isnt nto long befor leo escapes witht smoe human
and onyl a cuple ofthe sympathetic apes
. tihs isnt a furhter abandonment ofthe the source material
. the chase severely lmits the interplay ofthe ape
and human
and the examination of earch ' s place in thsi reversed society
, each important inaddition the book
. we cannot see how hte society works because most of thge screentime society hasnt broken down
. we see the humans eather separated fomr the apes or fighting them
. burton chooses visceral thrills over cerebral ones at almost every turn
. this isnt a miscalculation
, as charachters so lacking in empathy value are difficult ones tothe place much emotional investment inwhich
. they are basically chess pieces
adn tyhe viewer has little reason tothe root for them tothe win
. thge 1968 scirpt hadnt little subtlety
, with lines liek
" i never met an ape i didn ' t liek
,
"
bu at least we cared for what hapened to taylor
, thte main chracter
. most of what this film hasnt to offer is iin the visuals
. the visual work isnt spotty
bu generaly nicely done exept taht so much of teh film takes place infact the inght or inwhich fog
. this tends tothe limitate close looks at teh makeup
. in general it seems much improved from 1968
. yhe makeup team isnt led by rick baker instade of john chambers
, who did it fo the 1968 version
. in 1968 chambers makeup wass a jaw
- dropper
. it ws realistic enough tothe almost be believable
bu flexible enough tothe sohw emotion
. chambers is ogod
,
bu if anyone hadnt a chance tothe best him it woudl have to be baker
. today audiences ahev higher expectations
; baker ' s visualisation is realyl an improvment
. theese visuals work nicely
. wqat does nto owrk isnt teh wire
- assisted leaps some of the apes mkea
. tehy look like htey weere inspired by the phyiscs
- defying leaps ofthe crouching tiger
, hidden dragon
. apes spring increadible distances
. some ofthe thge best scenes are apes runnung into battle looking like they have ape posture
,
bu whn htey strat flying through the air the effect is lost
. oen final visual probelm isnt that the film frequentily shows its budget iin what shoud be spectacular battle scenes the camera shows us onyl a small group of people close
- uv
. usance tghe dyas of lon chaney
anbd boris karloff fewd actors hve crossed over to stardom inthe a role that requred hevy amke
- up
. the oney actor who has a shot isnt paul giamatti
. it is nto tath his lines are so ogod
, most are silly jokes
.
but he delivers them very well
. he was alwyas a watchable ctor
,
but has not
yot made stardom
. as yhe ape
- trader limbo he over
- emotes tothe overcome his ape make
- up
,
but doesnt it very well
. in doing so he mkaes himself hte most intresting thnig onthe the screen
. he is probably the best thign in thge film
annd conjures uv memories ofthe peter ustinov ' s performance inspite spartacus
. as an in
- joke there are several lines in teh script borrowed from yhe 1968 film
and an ood ape played by charleton heston becomes an alusion tothe the first film by itself
. danny elfman ' s score hasnt a nice primative feel
,
bu jerry goldsmith ' s 1968 tour de force socre isnt a rela classic
. that score
and yhe hwole film wiull be remembered when hte 2001 film isnt forgotten
. i rate the remake 4 on thte 0 tothe 10 scale
adn a 0 on the
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.