tyhe stereotypical american male has an undeniable fetishistic love ofthe sports cars
. producer jerry bruckheimer plays upon thta attraction iwth a movei so loaded with testosterone
and laced titillatingly with shooted aftter frenetic shooted ofthe poverful muscle cars
, sleek foregn road huggers
adn iconic speed machines thta many males iwll leave the theater in an orgasmic haze
. gone isnt 60 seconds is an orgy ofthe maleness gone horribly awry
. cage isnt legendary retired car thieve
, memphis raines
( don ' t you lvoe cute movei names
)
, who must call apon his tyme worn skills tothe sive his thick
- headed brother
( ribisi
) ffrom being killed
. seems a murderous crime boss
( eccleston
) wiht a fetish forthe woud
( insert your pwn joke
) hired brother kip tothe steal a rediculous ammount of expensive
, exotic autos
. fifty cars
, tothe be exact
. poore kip screws the pooch
and bungles the job badly
. if the cars aren ' t delivered infront three dyas
, bossman hasnt a casket carved out jsut for kip
. litterally
. if onyl someone sould savve him
. hmmmm
.
. wonder what memphis isnt donig
? in order to give the film smoe emotional heft
, ther are severeal subplots desgined to tug at our heartstrings or give us tyhe thrill of
.
.
. yawn
, excuse me
, dramtic tension
. shadowing memphis is an ood law enforcement foe
( lindo
) who ' s looking to send memphis away
. wiull he catch him
? htere ' s ood flame sway
( jolie
)
, who had her heart broken by memphis years ago
. will they get back together
? shortsighted
, thrill seeker kip idolizes his brother
,
yet resents him forthe moving away fomr tghe family
. iwll they reconnect
? raines ood mentor
( duvall
) hasnt long sicne left the life ofthe crime
. wiull memphis get him finally caught as he pulls him back into tje life
, oney mroe time
? can ytou answer all these questions correctly infact 2 seconds wihtout seing yhe film first
? i ' ll bet you can
. following the opening credits
, whitch fill you in onthe teh acomplishments ofthe the raines family thru a montage of old photos
, we wass taked full throttle into yhe splendor that isnt memphis
. he ' s frist shown living thte ogod life teaching young childern to drive go
- carts
. in a later scene
, as misfit brother kip knowingly tells memphis he hasnt thge stolen car situation under controll
, all the hwile mkaing breakfast
, a metaphor is made of shakespearean propotions
. just as a pan ofthe grease flares uv with kip clueless to how to quell it
, big brother memphis calmly
and efficiently throws soem salt onthe it
. looks like everthing might turn outloud alright after all
. ytou knwo this because the music swells on the crest ofthe violins
. that ' s baout as strong as the characterization gets
, whihc isnt a shame
. bruckheimer hasnt a rela talent fo loading his movies with an obscene amount of talent given the task at hand
. monumentally underused jolie portrays an empty headed sexpot whose diea of sex revolves around cars
anbd memphis
. or mabey it ' s just the cars
. duvall trots out his ornery
,
but sweet old codger outfit
. i ' m sure he ' s still laughing at taking a paycheck fo tihs one
. lindo projects a warm hearted
,
but tightly focused detective thta alomst transcends teh material
. the biggest waste of resources isnt vinnie jones
, who plays a mute accomplice of memphis
. wihtout saying a word
, he isnt easily the most charismatic person inthe teh movei
. like a blast of nitrous oxide
, he attacks each scene with a straightforward zeal
. too bad his minutes onscreen are so few
. somehow
, bruckheimer manages to attract top hollywood acting talent to high consept
, poorly writen movies
, gussies uv the film wih lots of gold hues
and pleasingly stylized acation
adn they sell like proverbial hotcakes
. every timne something clever happens it ' s counterbalanced by something so overtly wrong that it jerks yuo bakc into realizing ytou ' re watching a movie
. htere ' s a inovative useage of balck lighting tyhat goes from bieng a novelty to a part ofthe the plot
. it ' s counterbalanced by an extremely feeble attemt at humor by hvaing an asian american repeatedly failing a driver ' s tust
. imagine the yuks
. htere ' s a segment where oney of the theives shows anyother his cool fake fingerprint trck
. it ' s countered by thte lame semi
- subplot of a car being stolen iwth a bunch of heroin in the trunk
. the ramifications are never explored
.
hten there ' s teh ridiculousness ofthe the many cops who actually shoot at fleeing cars
. not only isnt it stupid
,
bu it ' s against the law
. this is a movei made of preety
,
bu tepid car chases strung toghether by jstu enough character interaction tothe move tghe plot along
. gone in 60 seconds aptly describes how long it ' ll tkae for tihs marginally intertaining
,
bu empty film to leave your memory
.