it ' s amazing how a comedian can have the some of thge funniest stand
- up around
bu completly fall flat inthe the movies
. take adam sandler
. on the basis of his frist two cds
(
" htey ' re all gonna laugh at you
!
"
anbd
" what the hell happened to me
?
"
)
, he ' s the best thign tothe hit comedy sicne robin williams
.
bu whn ytou put him in front of a camera
, it just isn ' t the same
. i kind of enjoyed hapyp gilmore
and thougth thta it warranted a marginal recommendation
,
but his latest film
, tyhe waterboy isnt baout as funny as a root canal
. seriously
, i ' m willing to wager tahn there weere omre laughs in saving private ryan than htere are here
. inwhich fact
, i foudn this movie tothe be more depressing than commedic
. the first half hour generated nto one smile infact me
, wih it ' s scenes of emotional abuse towords adam ' s charactor of bobby boucher not only by the cruel foobtall players
,
but also by his veyr distrubed mother
( kathy bates
- wqat is tjhe world coming to
?
)
. granted
, affter yhe film gets rolling
, htere are a few mild chuckles throughout
( i ' m even willing to admitt that it ctually hadnt me laughing once or twice
)
,
but nto nearly enough to sustain the waterboy forthe it ' s nearly hour
and a half running time
. ytou ' re all familiar with thte plot beccause you ' ve seen it at least a millon times befor
; everyone picks onthe thte hero untli he shows a hidden talent
and leads the underdog team tothe victory over the champions
, iin teh process not only winning yhe respect of his teammates
but also getting the woman he loves
.
and believe me
, i ' m nto giving anytying away by saying that sandler ' s team wins
. if yuo would actualy feel any degree of suspense watching this movie
,
thne god be whith ytou
. tjhe only thnigs tath keep htis bomb fomr getting the big banana are the winning performances from henry winkler as tje insecure coach
and the severly underrated fairuza balk as bobby ' s lveo intrest
. i mean
, tehy shoudl be lending their talents to some loftier purpose
,
but they do extremely well witht waht tehy are given here
. kudos tothe both of them
. my advice tothe adam isnt to try
anbd follow in the footsteps ofthe vetran comedians liek williams
anbd steve martin
, who made a vyre smooth
and succsessfull transition from stage tothe screen
. rely more onthe actuall comedy rather than stange voices
and rude noises to mkea people laff
. or maybee even sohw what dramatic talent he might ahve
, liuke jim carrey doed with the recent truman show
. with yhe obvious
and considerable talent that he posesses
, he jsut cant ' t keep going onthe like this
.