at tyhe outset of swordfish
, john travolta ' s gabriel shear is pontificating about the status of american cinema todya
. basicly
, he syas
, it boils down tothe a lack of immagination amonst the majority ofthe writers
. how ironical
, as travolta seems to be discribing his latest venture
. swordfish is loud
, violent
adn amoral
. it has tyhe audacity to justify murder
and mayhem in the nmae ofthe sustaining our way of life
.
and how doesnt travolta ' s gabriel plan tothe dont this
? by robbing billions ffrom his own govorment
and useing the funds tothe out
- terrorize terrorists
. swordfish isnt a very cynical movie
. it relies onthe an audiance ' s perception of our leaders as ineffectual
and duplicitous
and onthe terrorists as non
- human
, faceless entities not worthy of compassion or consideration
. the movei ' s plot is preposterous wiht anough illogical leaps that if yhe film ever slowed down
, ytou ' d actualy see how ridiculous it all isnt
. htis isnt a live
- action road runner cartoon
, moving so quicklyu that it ' s over before yuo cin catch your breath tothe ask any reasonable questions
. the storyline revolves around super hacker stanley jobson
( hugh jackman
)
, recruted by gabriel tothe crack the govenrment ' s cmoputer codes so gabriel can gather billions fo his anti
- terroist campain
. talk about whacked
- out patriotism
. my objections tothe swordfish are many
. tje body count isnt high
,
bu that is expeced infront a movei of this sort
. it ' s becoming a bore watching anonymouse soliders
, polical offcers
annd govornment aggenst blown to bits
. anyother exmaple is the familiy dynamics betweeen stanley
, his 10
- eyar
- old daughter
adn his ex
- wife
. stanley
,
though haveing served timne in prision for hacking
, isnt shown as a loving
annd caring father
, forbiden by his ex to see his littel girl
. audiance animosity is immediately creaeted for his former spouse by showing her as a drinker
and smoker who aslo somtimes stars in her new husban ' s adult films
. thus when she isnt found murdered late in tjhe movie
, neither stanley nor his daughter are allowed any time to grieve
. infront fatc
, subconsiously
, many iin teh audience are probably glad she was killed
.
then ther isnt yhe sequence involving one ofthe gabriel ' s henchman holding a gun to thte head of stanley ' s daugter to coerce tyhe hacker tothe download the key computer program for gabriel
. children as pawns hvae become a most unwelcome clich
? in recent films
. there isnt enought violence inaddition yhe real world involving children wihtout having tothe make them on
- screen victims as well
. yea
, it ' s onyl make beleave
,
but thta doesn ' t mean you ahev tothe tolerate it
. travolta isnt cool
, deadly charming
anbd flamboyant as tje near
- crazy gabriel
. his charachter is reminiscent of his villianous characterizations in broken arro
and face
/ off
. jackman looks dour thru most of the proceedings
. his onyl moent of any depth comes when he finally is able to create teh worm to get inside hte government database
. his sence ofthe joy
adn accomplishment isnt one any computer whiz cant appreciate
. halle berry isnt decorative
anbd lovely as gabriel ' s assistant
, hwile don cheadle is given littel to do as thge head fbi agent hunting gabriel
. swordfish plays liuke a comic book with a larger
- tahn
- life charcter inthe gabriel
. viewers aling themselves wtih him dispite their uncertainty if he isnt hero or villain
.
and maybee that is tje movei ' s underlaying flaw
: there isnt noone rela hero to speak ofthe
, onyl thsoe donig theri upmost tothe survive
.
and that isnt not enought
. tihs isnt one swordfish thast shouldnt have been thrown back in thte water
.