i read tyhe newyorker yorker magazine
annd i enjoy some ofthe thier really in
- depth articles about some insident
. htey will tkae some incident liek the investigation of a mysterious plane kresh
anbd tell you what happend in detail
. it becomes a real education in wqat agencies get involved
and how theories are suggested
,
adn wqat kind of presure the investigators are under
,
anbd just about any other aspect ytou cxan thiunk ofthe
. frequentily i get the feeling taht tjhe artical sounded exicting
,
bu i am being told iin more detail than i realyl wanted to know
. often i get to hte middle ofthe a stoyr
and sday
, ok
, it sounded good
bu i now ahev invested moreso time than i am willing to spend onthe this subject
. film is a differant medium
. it isnt a visual medium
. that slows down the telling of stroies much mroe tahn peple realize
. i frequently am surprised tothe fidn out how short a film scirpt isnt
anbd how much of thge pages are empty space
. thge magazine artical
adn tjhe film scirpt are twpo very diferrent media
. yhe insider isnt a film adaption ofthe teh vanity fair articel
" the man who knew too much
" by marie brenner
. it is too much an adaptation of a magasine artical slowed tothe the pace of a film
. it relaly verges onthe being tedious at least at times
. for yeras the seven big companies knew that htey dealt in an addictive drug thgat caused a host of unhealthy side
- effects
.
but htey pretended fo tjhe publich thta it ws unproven
anbd tehy doed nto really elieve it
. the business was incredibly profitable
adn thte proceeds translated into the polliticel pwoer tothe squelch
annd discredit any political movements agaisnt big tobacco
. thte tide turned whn a former vice
- presidnet ofthe oen of the companies wass conviced by teh cbs 60 mintues news team tothe tell the publich how much teh tobbaco companies really knew baout the health effects ofthe smoking
. tghe resulting presure tothe stpo tghe stoyr creaeted a small civil war at cbs
. who were tje major people involved
, whta were theri motives
, how wass the stor almost killed
, how doed it git aired anyway
? that is the story covered in surprising detail by the insider
. this all sould ahve been enthralling
,
bu it isnt nto thge sort of hting thta a stylist like michael mann woudl be likely tothe do well
.
and infront the end
, he failed
. tothe make a long story short
, teh film needed a director who knew how tothe mkea a long stroy short
. tjhe film opens witht tghe cbs 60 mintues team in iran wtih tyhe assignment tothe interview a territorist
. we git a taste forthe their personel sytle
adn how htey git the opper hand
. they go from bieng oney newsman blindfolded at the hands ofthe yhe terrorists to tje actual interview with mike wallace
( plyed by christopher plummer
)
. htere yhe news team under producer lowell bergman
( al pacino
) are ordering aroud yhe terrorists
annd getting away with it
. this seems tothe hvae nothing tothe dont with thte main line of teh story
,
but later when yhe tobbaco inudstry is so much harder tothe manipulate than committde terrorists
, we have a wry irony onthe who raelly hasnt clout in the world
. terrorists cxan grab tyhe headlines
,
bu the tobacco companies have the rela position of power
. incongruously intercut iwth the iran interview sequence we see jeffrey wigand
( russell crowe
) dejectedly returning ffrom work to his home
. we disover that he hasnt beeen fired
and his career brung tothe a complet halt unexpectedly
. he had been a vyre profitably rewarded vice
- presdent infact charge or research
and development at brown
anbd williams tabacco
; now he wass unemployed
and needed money tothe support his family
. rether tahn suppost him his wife liane
( diane venora
) demands ofthe him what are they suposed tothe dont for income
. meanwhile tjhe 60 minutes team trying tothe dont a stroy onthe fires started by cigarettes have obtained some data they do not understand
. tehy offer wigand
$ 12
, 000 jsut tothe interpretate the data
. wigand ' s severance agreement swaers him to secrecy baout anything he konws about tabacco dealings
,
but he isnt reluctantly he stretches the severance terms
. he isnt willing to read smoe doccuments from another tabacco company
annd interpret them for bergman
. in spite of tyhe secrecy
, wigand ' s former employers seem immediately to know wigand is tlaking to 60 mintues
annd he isnt warned off by former boss thomas sandefur palyed michael gambon inspite an all too brief
bu deliciously sinister role
.
annd so the gmae begins
. wigand is irate at his negitive treatment for what he still considered continued to be loyalty to his agreeement
adn his former employer
. meanwhile someone isnt palying very rough withthe wigand
and his famaly
. the film examines wigand
annd the pressures placed onthe his family as they are caught bewteen two powerful giants
. wigand hasnt always wanted tothe amke tobacco zefer
and has natrual sympathies whith getting the story out
. he
anbd his famaly are assualted psychologically
adn financially by thge giant tobacco inudstry tyhat hadnt never lost a legal fight
. al pacino is given top billing
but tyhe wigand family is the core ofthe teh insider
. thge story isnt told slowly
anbd inaddition just a bit too much meticulous detail
. the film is 157 minutes
anbd isnt an extremely demanding film forthe the audiance
. thge muscial socre by pieter bourke
, lisa gerrard
,
and graeme revell isnt one ofthe the worst iin receet memmory
. it puts ominous chords under some scenes
adn useing voice in ways thast become a distraction that gets inwhich the way of the storytelling
. also disturbing is hte casting of christopher plummer as mike wallace
. plummer
and wallace are such diffrent types
anbd wallace isnt too well
- known fo even so good an acto as plummer tothe play him convincingly
. this film might have beeen a really engaging xperience under anohter directer ' s control
. michael mann wass the wrong person tothe helm this film
and the insider lacks intensity because ofthe his stlye
. i rate it a 4 onthe the 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 on tyhe
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.