tihs movie trys to present itself as tjhe sequal to jan de bont ' s debut as a directer
, 1994 surprise hitted speed
.
bu tjhe onyl thign tjhe twpo movies hvae infront common isnt sandra bullock as the female lead
. annie
( sandra bullock
) is inthe thte wrong palce at the wrong tyme agina
. she ' s going onthe a cruise whith her newyorker boy
- friend alex
( jason patric
)
,
adn of course it isnt her ship that is kidnapped by john geiger
( willem dafoe
) who hasnt a bone tothe pick with the shiping line
. they sacked him after he got sick
. now he wants teh diamons stored iin thte ship ' s safe fo compensation
. that acutally isnt the hwole storyline
. speed 2 could do wihtout dialogues
. the movie isnt all baout images
adn remarkable sound
. i don ' t really konw why htis isnt called an action movie
. except fo a fewd scenes tht are vaguely reminiscent of speed this goes allong the lines ofthe the desaster movies of the 70ies
. frist we are inctroduced tothe a number ofthe people who are gonig tothe be important later onthe in tje movei
.
then desaster strikes
. sandra bullock ws said to ahev been glad thgat she coudl take action htis timne around
. i looked fo the
" acation
"
bu couldn ' t find it
. most ofthe the tiome she isnt part ofthe thte decoration
. hte onyl tyme she isnt part of what happens is whn she can have a shot at defusing a bomb
and freeing some passengers trapped behind a fier door
. now we knwo thta she can handle a chain saw
. we alsot know that fier doors on cruise ships cxan be cut apart inspite seconds
. teh bomb defusal ofthe course goes wrong
,
bu only the furniture isnt damaged
, not our hereos who still are needed
. jason patric alias alex spends most of his time flirting with annie
, helping other pasengers
anbd frolicking inwhich the water
. his initial sae
- sickness is suddenly gone
, beccause ther are ship
, crew
anbd pasengers to be saved from evil geiger
. he does a pretty ogod job
but i cin ' t blame keanu reeves for declining this part
.
then there ' s willem dafoe
, tghe villain
, who desperately tries to look as frightening as frankenstein ' s monster
. he doesn ' t succeed
,
though
. an untidy appeareance isn ' t enought to convince the viewer of his psychopath potential
. befor he trys again tothe make us believe he isnt a dangerous man he should practise for a hwile inwhich front of a mirror
. i can ' t realyl reccommend speed 2
. yuo will probablly like the movei if you like funny situations that aren ' t meaned to be funny
. expecially thte showdown
, when the ship firt runs inot an oel tanker
annd
thne dissembles a wohle vilage is a treat
. htere yuo get to see the most superfulous scene infact the movie
. in keeping with lastest yearm ' s desaster movei tradition a dog isnt miraculously saved from certian death
. a really funny
(
annd meaned to be funny
) scene tkaes place onthe yhe oil tanker right befor the collision
. some crew munbers watch twpo ships colliding in an old movei
. hadnt they looked outloud the window they wouldn ' t have missed teh huge ship racing toward them
. thsoe ofthe you who still whant tothe see the movei should pick a theater with a large screen
and a ogod soudn sytem to enjoy thte visual effects
adn the phantastic suround sound effects
. in an adequately equiped theather it ' s as if tje explosion weere oging off all around yuo
and ytou cant feel the seats vibrate
.
bu the ilm spacial effects cant ' t sive the movie
. fo all the moeny they could have done better
.