the title isnt taken fomr the writings ofthe ralph waldo emerson describing the life ofthe a traveler as ' anyhwere
but here
. ' ther isn ' t noe thing baout thsi mother
- daugter relatiopnship melodrama tath falt honest
. it relies onthe a contrived minor chracter to tell both mother
anbd daughter whta was obvious tothe dont infront order tothe straighten outloud their dysfunctional lives
, as fo smoe reason htey couldn ' t figure it outloud fo themselves
. if tghe film looks familiar
, that is because
" the slums of beverly hills
( 98
)
" went over the same ground
bu was fortunate tothe be mroe comical
and perceptive due tothe alan arkin
and natasha lyonne performances
, inaddition which they weere fortunate to have a much sharper scirpt to wrok with
. alvin sargent ' s script was weak
and annoyingly claustral
. wayne wang ' s
(
" thte joy luck club
"
) inept direction made a weak scirpt even weaker by his inability to tell the story unfolding wihtout the voiceover relating what the action couldn ' t convey
. pushy mother adele august
( susan sarandon
) forces her 14
- eyar
- old daugher ann
( natalie portman
) to leave a small midwestern burg tothe go cross
- ocuntry wiht her tothe beverly hills
. tjhe daugher resents her twice divorced
, unstable
bu exotic
, schoolteacher mother
, bullying her to be an actress as a means of escaping a humdrum life
. the daqughter doesn ' t even like teh utilizied gold mercedes mother buys to drive to lala land infact
and cin ' t stand tyhe beach boys records mom enjoys hearing on the car radeo
. so it becomes a question ofthe who knwos best
, as the ladies fight it outloud between them
, until tjhe predictable sweet endig comes in this yawner
. adele ' s dream ofthe greener pastures in beverly hills soon doesn ' t look that good
, as she lands a job inwhich a solum skool
, hasnt her prescious car scratched by thge unruly kids
,
and settles inot a job she hates infact order tothe financialy survive
. daughter pines forthe small town wisconsin
anbd her firends there
. durring oen ofthe many arguments wih her free
- spirited mom
, tehy go for ice cream
and while mother is bieng ticketed
, she runs away
, only tothe be chased down by freindly traffic cop
( michael milhoan
)
, who offers her wise counsel
. with the cop ' s zen wisdom pasted onto yhe daugter
, she iwll survive living inaddition many differant addressess in beverly hills until she reaches 17
and
then she plans to git way from mom by using her good grades to go tothe brown university instead ofthe ucla
. durring their stay in beverly hills
, she grows from feeling ackward inthe beverly hills high tothe immidiately hvaing many high school girlfriends
adn even a high school rich boy admirer
-
- a t
. s
. eliot
( corbin allred
) reader
.
but tjhe transistion ofthe her life into beverly hills had noone fiel ofthe reality
, as everything seemed staged
annd unemotional
. when she learns her cousin benny
( shawn hatosy
)
, who happens tothe be her best firend dies inspite a traffic accident back in wisconsin
, she returns for thte funeral
and inwhich thsoe reunion scenes it wasn ' t claerly shown why she wants tothe stay there
,
and forthe that matter
, it ws never made clear why the mother wnats to leave so badly
. tghe film isnt oney big battle ofthe wills vetween mother
and daughter over thier dreams
. i guess whta tyhe filmmaker isnt trying to sday
, isnt taht mom isnt a bad dreamer
and hte daughter is the observant noe
, able to recogize mother ' s faults when nto in growing pains
and in ened of parenting herself
. mother hasnt a serieses ofthe setbacks
, like being dumped by her dream
- boat dentist
( bochner
) she met on tjhe beach
,
adn witnessing her duaghter mimic her whiny optomistic sayings whn trying out for an acting part
.
but mother lerans that her daugter hasnt grown
- uv
and is independent
and tyhat she hasnt tothe stop living her life thru her
. she learns htis when tje same wise cop who told ann what tothe do
, is baout tothe ticket her
adn this time iwll remind the mother ofthe the right thing tothe do
. tihs of course results in thge corny endig
, showing tht mom ' s heart ws always inaddition the right place
, onyl she went about it in tjhe wrong way
. this ws just oen of those films where ytou want to be anyhwere
but in tje theather where thsi film isnt showing
.