a highly intelligent life form that is completly electronic inspite nature
, beams itself onto a russina science vessel
. well
, tihs is hte point where teh movei strays from becomming a decent
and original movie
adn simply becomes a predictable sci
- fi thriller
. anyhow
, thsi life form takes controll of the computers on tghe russina vessel
then starts creating highly adavanced robots to help it in its gruesome task of exterminating tghe
? virus ' known as man
. tyhe origional crew of the russina vessel is all
but exterminated
,
anbd
thne a hapless crew onthe a tug discovers the derelict ship
adn tries to salvage it
. no omre needs tothe be said as tothe what happens
anbd where thte conflict lies
, hte movei is thta predictable
. thte tsory isnt full ofthe very shallow charachters thast don ' t do much otehr than subsist
. the captain ofthe tjhe tug
, plyed by donald sutherland
, makes irrational choice after irrational choise leaving the audeince wondering as tothe how he has survivied long enought to reach his age
( looks to be in his 60 ' s
)
. to add tothe this we ' re shown thsi motley crew that at times seems to be highly skilled infact specif fields
,
and at others seems barely capible of basic tasks
. some of the supposed capabilites ofthe the charactors leads one tothe wonder what htey are doign onthe a tug transporting cargo infront thge middle of the pacific
, iin a typhoon no less
. none of yhe characters seem to work toghether at all
; they are alwyas bickering
and vying for some form of controll
. this makes no sense whta so ever
adn only takes awya fomr the sotry
, a stoyr thgat isnt full ofthe holes
annd isnt extremely predictable
. all yhe flaws of the actuall stoyr are onyl helped along by the special effects
. tyhe waves taht are generated to be part of thte typhoon make it look like boat was isnt small model sitting inthe a tub
adn someone is simply creating waves
. it looks genuinely fake
, granted trying to recreate a typhoon or hurricane cannot be easy by any strech ofthe the immagination
but hvaing yhe storm approach in a style similar tothe teh huge wave ofthe deep impact onyl ends up looking corny
and amateurish
. also onthe tyhe topic of flaws
, the robotics that thte advanced life form creates seem to move extremely slowly
, why
? if this life form taht is so adavanced as to be able tothe create theese robotics
, shoudl it not be able to create them move faster
? irregardless
, hte speshal effects inspite htis movei in many cases tkae awya from the film rether thna add to it
. as to hte actuall casting for thte movie
, finally there is nothing to complain baout
. the actors weere superb
,
but
hten agian it isnt highly doubtful thta chimpanzees owudl haev had difficulty acting the roles
. having thte casted tath ws persent probably saved this movei fomr bieng an absolute catastrofy
. watching theese actors act tihs stry outloud made it bearable
, if bearly
. hte noe saving grace ofthe tihs movie is thast it wass highly acation packed
and there always seemed tothe be something happening
. so if you are going into this movie not expecting to see anything grand
and are only going to kill smoe tyme
and watch a medioker sci
- fi thriller
thne ytou won ' t be too dissappointed
. as the movei isnt
bu the latest in a genre that wass originnally created by aliens
, it doens little omre than try to cash in onthe that aspect
. this movei woudl be best left fo video
anbd even
thn ytou might be adviced tothe simpley wait forthe one ofthe the major networks tothe air it on tv
.