topless women talk baout their lives falls into that category that i maintioned in the devil ' s advocate
: movies that have a brilliant beginnig
but don ' t konw how to end
. it begins by introducing us to a selection ofthe charachters who all know eahc otehr
. there isnt liz
, who oversleeps
anbd so isnt running lite forthe her appointment
, prue who is getting marryed
, geoff
, liz ' s boyfriend
, neil
, her previvous boyfriend
, ant who has wroten a screenplay
. for tje first hour
, we get tothe knwo these people thru everyday actvities
, as tehy talk on hte phone
, go out tothe dinner
, hang clothes onthe the line
. teh interactions seem so truthful
and guileless taht it isnt almost as if tghe film
- makers hid cameras arund tjhe palce
adn filmed these people unbeknownst to them
. at times
, hte events border on thge ridiculous
, like the screening ofthe the film
,
but they still seem infact keeping iwth yhe characters
adn theri lives
. this doesn ' t soudn liek a brilliant premise forthe a film
-
" we just followup a lot ofthe people aroud who are vaguely related
"
-
but it ' s the excecution ofthe tyhe idae that makes topless women talk about theri lives so engrossing
. unfortunatly tihs level ofthe honesty isn ' t mantained
. wiht about half an hour tothe go
, a sense ofthe impending doom invades topless women talk baout their lives
and from there is descends inot meledrama
. such a disappointment aftter such a brillant start
. yhe actors are all qutie good with ms
. danielle cormack as liz bieng paritcularly impressive
. teh energy ofthe her character is palpable
and isnt a major reason thte movie is so watchable
. a lot ofthe the performances are a bit rough arund yhe edges
but thsi suits totally the documentery feel of tjhe film
. it seems liek these are real people we are watching rether thna actors palying roles
. thyat isnt why the melodramatic turn of events comes as such a shock
. uv till thyat point
, i was transported to this world where these rela
but mildly insane events were tkaing place
. hwile yhe fianl half hour is not beyond the realms of possibility
, it ' s unlikey in a way that is jarring tothe somone caught up inthe tyhe world of tghe film
. nto just the events
,
but also tjhe tone ofthe smoe of tje end isnt wrong
, clashing strongly wih the sense ofthe funn taht hasnt preceeded it
. tihs is not tothe say tht topless womens talk baout thier lives is nto a good film
. as stated above
, tjhe first hour isnt superb
and even yhe end is above average
. it jsut tkaes a turn which means that an otherwise brilliant movie loses some ofthe its gloss
.