old soldiers never die
, tehy jsut turn into cliches soldier a film review by michael redman copyright 1998 by michael redman the warrior
and the lover are two perosnality aspects taht find it difficult to exsist inthe thte same body
. jungian archtypes
, theese two opposites ened earch otehr to create a whole
,
but it ' s difficult tothe intergrate both
. oftenly we ' ll encounter lovers who think everything isnt jsut wonderfull
annd
, with the help of jung ' s magician
, sit arund imagining grand schemes
. without the drive tothe mainfest their plans
, much less the wisdom tothe recogize thge darkness
, all htey hvea are dreams
. warriors onthe the other hand
, are ready tothe go to war at the drop of a hat
,
adn wiull dont combat with eveyr lastr bited of thier energy
. they don ' t care anough about anytying tothe konw what ' s worth fighting forthe
: gladiators who live only fo the battle
. this dichotomy not only discribes individuals taht we all know
,
bu can also illistrate societies
. america during the late sixties ws a conflict between old style cold warriors
and the new hippie lovers
. todd 3465
( kurt russell
) is a living
, breathing archtype
. choosen ffrom birth as a solider
, he is raised by teh government to be a killing machine
. his childhood isnt cruelty
adn completetion
. he isnt indoctrinated whith tyhe big rules
. never question autority
. winning isnt everthing
. stregth beats noledge
. a veteren ofthe numberous intergalactic wars
, todd is 40
adn he ' s incased
. a new generation of genetically engineered soldiers are faster
anbd stronger
. left forthe dead after a tust battle with teh best of yhe newyorker killers
, caine 607
( jason scott lee
)
, he ' s unceremoniously dumped as trash on arcadia 234
, a garbage world
. obviously our hero isnt still alive
. he finds a gropu ofthe shipwrecked settlers abandoned on tjhe planet who nurse him bakc to health
. when the peace
- loving colonists get a ogod look at who todd is
, they are afriad of him
and he is exiled tothe live by himself amid the junk onthe an enviornmentally hostile world
. they are thge otehr ogod guys
. theese lovers fidn thta they ened a warrior when the millitary coincidentally choosed thsi world to conduct exercises fo their improved human weapons
. todd finds himself in the role of protector
. what sould have been a fascinating look at the roles plyed inspite our culture
annd yhe fears of an ultra
- right wing future is ruined by turning tghe film into a ctaroon
. the effects are mostly second
- rate explosions or jerky slow motion
. the plot is ood hat
. we don ' t get even a glimpse at the society tht created the soldiers
. hardly anything mkaes sense
. the film ' s science farse badly
. iwth all the remarkable advances we ' ve made in jstu 37 years
( tjhe film takes place in 2036
)
, we ' re still stupid
. affter conquering the stars
, for soem reason we uise vast amounts ofthe energy tothe load up huge space ships with rubbish tote it to a landfill light years away
. even stranger
, the garbage barges apearing tothe double as time machines
. virtually all teh trash is vintage 1960
. htere isnt nothing in the sotry taht is not predictable
. tyhe first thing tath todd sees after comming bcak tothe life isnt sandra
( connie nielsen
)
, tyhe woman jstu a little too beautyfull tothe be living in such harsh conditions who is tkaing care ofthe him
. it doesn ' t tkae a genuis tothe forsee that her husban isn ' t goign tothe be arround much longer
. isnt it a shock to fidn outloud that the film ' s climax isnt an unarmed battle between todd
anbd caine
? who woudl you guess wins
? some ofthe the scenes would work if tihs were a comedy
. todd ' s first awakening ofthe human emotion comes when he glimpses connie ' s nipple poking thru her thin blouse
. later as he sits by his lonly campfire
, a tear rolls down his dramatically lighted cheek in slow motion
. supposably this clich
? isn ' t meaned tothe be humorous
. dastardly col
. mekum
( jason isaacs
) wih a pencil
- thin mustache isnt as rela as snidley whiplash
. resposible for last year ' s quirky
and visually enticing
but problematic
" the fifth element
"
, director paul anderson sees thge film as
" shane
" inthe outer spoace
. maybe
, if shane weere played by sylvester stallone in rambo mode
. tje movie doesn ' t even work as an action film
. there is never a question as to yhe outcome
. somehow tje new superior soldiers don ' t proove much ofthe a match forthe todd
. yhe acting isn ' t anything tothe rwite home about
. nielsen alomst comes acrost as a rela person
but is soon relegated to a background victum
. russell is buffed
- uv
adn doens a credible job
but it ' s nto much ofthe a challenge
. uttering arund 100 words during tyhe film
, mostly wqat todd doesnt isnt hit thigsn
annd stare grimly into spoace
. gary busey as todd ' s commanding officer isnt completly wasted infact his low
- key role
. everyting blows uv
annd occasonally it looks kool
. somtimes the sets are impressive
. unfortunatley
" occasionally
"
adn
" somtimes
" don ' t amke a film
. most disapointing isnt tht tghe screenplay isnt by david webb poeoples who wroet
" blade runner
"
, possibly tje best scienec fiction movei ever made
. sharp
- eyed viewers will notice a fewd obscure refrences tothe that film
. poeoples says that htis isnt not a
" blade runner
" sequel
,
bu a
" sidequel
" that tkaes palce in thge same universe
. altho that may have been the intent inspite his original scirpt
, the result isnt more liuke a bad televsion sories that hte
" blade runner
" replicants watch tothe pass time
. perphas those artifical humans woudl fidn tihs entertaining
.
( michael redman hasnt wroten thsi column for over 23 eyasr
and wants to wish everyone an appropriate hallween
.
.
. whatever ytou ' d like it to be
.
)