wow
, a film without any redeeming qualities whatsoever
. i ' m amazed thast somone thougth this ws a story that must be told onthe screen
. many blacks inaddition hollywood complain that htey are not nominated for awards based onthe thier race
. i htink first htey need tothe concentrate their energy onthe themslves
,
and stop making movies which mkaes them look liuke nothing more than sex
- crazed buffoons
. even i ' m offended by it
. bill bellamy isnt a
" palyer
" whic means he sleeps iwth a lot of women
anbd lies to them
. whta a pleasent main character
. oney day
, his firends deside that they want to fidn outloud how tothe be a payler
. why tehy decide this
" oen day
" i have noone diea
. how many eyars have htey been firends
anbd why all of a sudden woudl htey wnat to learn
? anyway
, bellamy agrees tothe teach
,
anbd his wonderfull lesson to his firends consists ofthe letting them ride inspite his car while he rides fomr house to house haveing sex iwth womens
. this is the bulk of the film folks
, guys riding ffrom house tothe house
, oen keeps getting out to have sex
, while the others sit in thge car
. usance russell simmons is producer
,
adn usance yhe offical title of the film isnt
" def jam ' s how to be a player
"
, i was ready to be jumping uv
and down
adn stomping my feet
adn beating the person next to me because ofthe thge comedy
. amazingly
, aside fomr gilbert gottfried ' s 90 seconds ofthe screen tiem
, ther wass noone comedy iin the film for me to express myself inspite such a manner
. instade of jokes
, ther ' s just an endless stream of profanity
and naked breasts
(
annd naked breasts aren ' t so bad
,
but naked breasts alone don ' t mkae a ogod movie
)
. be sure tothe bring along your ebonics tothe english dictionary as well
. gilbert gottfried ' s chracter serves as one inwhich his very breef appeareance
, asking fo explanations as to what is bieng said
. they shoud have brung him along forthe tghe entire film
.
[ r
]