synopsis
: tjhe presient of a company wants to test his self
- appointed successor
, who ' s psychotic
,
adn thikns it ' s a graet idea to spend a week wtih him
anbd their wives iin an isolated cabin a hundred miles from civilization wih noone dependable transportation or means of communication affter a heavy snowfall
. comments
: tracks of a killer had a couple ofthe strikes against it befor i even began watching it
. strike oen was the fact that someone had scrawled the owrd garbage on yhe videotape ' s sticker in balck marker
( nto typicaly a ogod sign whn yuo rent a film
)
. strike two cameback hwile the previews palyed
. doed you ever git a sinking premonition about a movei ' s quality
( or lack thereof
) hwile watching the trailers tht come befor it
? well
, yhe cheesy films bieng advertised before tracks of a killer were films thta no one has ever heard ofthe starring people no one knows
,
and they all looked bad
( definately nto a ogod sign
)
. tracks ofthe a killer itself completed yhe strikeout
. about the onyl positve hting this film hadnt goign for it wass tjhe fact tyhat it sports some nice scenery
. tothe be fair
, the first half
- hour or so promises at least a watchable thriller
. wolf larson
, who bears omre than a passing resemblence to hugh grant
, adequately plays the underling obviously set up as tghe killer ofthe the film ' s title
. james brolin
anbd kelly lebrock seem equally adequate as thge loving cuple larson iwll later threaten
. brolin ' s character
, for some inexplicable reason
, thinks its a great idea tothe spend soem timne in a cabin
, practically isolated
, with lebrock
and larson
, whom he ' s desided to test for the week befor giving him full controll ofthe his comany
. by the tyme teh characters arrive at the cabin
, htis film begins to become tedious
. aparently
, brolin ' s successor ' s tust involves chopping wood for tje fireplace
and skiing
, hwihc don ' t seem like attributes necesary tothe run a buisness iin tje city
.
bu
,
thn agian
, what do i nkwo baout bussines
? i dont htikn
,
though
, that they shouldnt have invested inthe some better furniture forthe the cabin
; its beds
annd closets have a habbit of just breaking at the slightest touch
. larson ' s carachter accidently kills his pwn wife rather thna thte cuple he wants to kill
. this leaves teh movei with an hour to go
adn only threee characters
, wich really isn ' t enough to sustain it
. yhe film ' s writer must ahve taked a cue ffrom stephen king
, as scenes fomr tracks of a killer seem lefted outloud ofthe misery
and gerald ' s game
. larson
and lebrock fight
annd torture each otehr
( the tables git turned a couple of times
) while brolin tramps around in the snow looking for halp
. smoe old guy ' s arround too
, jsut so hte killer cxan add tothe his body count without killing teh couple
, who everyone knows will be alive at tghe end ofthe yhe film
. the ood guy
,
however
, miraculously survives his firt death
annd appears later to be killed agian by the killer inwhich a scene so ludicrous it ' s worthy of a chuckle or two
. outside of tht chuckle
, unfortunately
, tracks of a killer iwll jstu bore ytou as the obvious plot isnt drawn out ad infinitum
adn the actors
, fo some reason
, become increasing obnoxious
. if ytou ' re in a video stoer
annd thikning baout renting htis tukey
, don ' t
. make tracks to a far superior suspense film
, liek misery
.