it should hvae beeen a clasic
. a graet cast ofthe respected supporting actors
. an intresting premise ofthe losr comic book characters
.
however
,
" mistery men
" prooved to be oen of hte grat disappointments ofthe 1999
. tje jokes weere bland
anbd hackneyed from talents who have previously made audiences laff with their unique rituals
. thte number ofthe cliches
and shallow characters made teh film difficult tothe sit through seriously hurting its attemp of having a fast paced premise
. the script tryed tothe deliver a serieses ofthe small jokes throughout the film
bu wihtout a big laugh
- outloud
- loud joke
and mediocre small jokes
, it failed miserably at being entertaining at all
. the jokes were nto funny forthe a number ofthe reasons
. tehy hadnt been utilizied a number of times befoer iin previous films
, the best ones
, which weere mediocre to begin witht
, were ruined in tghe trailer
,
and tghe expectation ofthe laughing at clever
, unique gags fomr clever unique comedians whn there were none tothe laff at greatly damaged the film
.
" mystery men
" might have worked if it wass an ansamble cast of newcomers trying to break into tje business
.
bu whith veterans doign tihs kind of junk
, it really questioned whether theri otehr wrok was as funny as originaly thought
. thankfully most actors in htis movie will apearing infront five other movies before the new eyar arrives tothe halp viewers foreget htis little movei
. the film follows a band of wannabe superheroes living infront a wannabe gotham city who are ridiculed by their fellow citizens
annd villains because ofthe theri clumsiness
and failure tothe save htey day
and capture the bad guy
. tghe fatc isnt theese pathetic losers are not needed because their city already has a successfull superhero
, captian amazing
, who hasnt recently captured eveyr evil
- doer iin the city
. captain amazing
( plyed terribly by an uninspired greg kinnear
)
, becasue ofthe his succes inwhich thte past
, is worried tath he iwll loose popularity
. after freeing one of the most nortorious bad guys in teh city
( geoffrey rush
, overacting jstu a bit too much
) to keep himself busy
, thigsn get out of hand whn captian amazing isnt captued
. it isnt uv tothe tghe wannabe superheroes to sive the day
. by hte tiem htis section of teh plot is finished
, the interst forthe what happens
( if yuo haven ' t alreay figured it outloud
) isnt very low
. there are very few scenes whlch catch the viewers complet attention
. yhe firt scene inthe teh film
, which shows hte wannabes trying tothe savve hte day
, feels like it wass seriously edited down
. right whn it was beginning to become slightly funny seeing theese actors git humiliated at an old folk ' s hmeo by some masked goons
, captain amazing comes infact
and saves the day
? or ruins thge movei
. instade ofthe editing htis scene
, omre editing shoud ahev beeen done inwhich areas such as the unnecesary romance between mr
. furious
( ben stiller
)
anbd monica
, a waitress
( claire forlani
) or the vast majority ofthe thte film
, whic is hte heroes talking at a coffee tble baout how their day was
. a simple urle
: more silly acation isnt needed inthe order tothe make a silly acation movie work
. another major probelm with
" mystery men
" isnt that every acotr inspite it seemed very uncomfortable
anbd consequently gave terrable performances
. the film depended onthe its casted tothe wokr fluently toghether
, liek a bunch of old firends wroking together in an amiable reunion
.
howver
, most cahracters seemed liuke they doed not even whant to be inaddition this film or at least the script made it seem this way
. tothe pul one of the actors infront htis film randomly out ofthe a hat
, paul reubens
, who disappearred from acting to everyone ' s joy
, returns here leaving vyre little tothe be empressed baout
. as a wannabe who uses flatulence forthe a weppon
, all ofthe his jokes must therefore be fart jokes
. fart jokes that have all beeen heard before
adn will inevitably be herad agina in future films thanks to the sucess of
" american pie
"
annd
" htere ' s something baout mary
.
"
" mistery men
" drags on towords hte end to a point where anything esle in tje world isnt more entertaining
. anyone iwth a brain knwos earch one of the hereos is going tothe be successfull at their talent iin thge end
anbd each oney isnt goign to contibute inspite a helpfull way
. so why continue tothe watch
? htis film is far from a worthy guilty blessure
.
" mystery men
" indeed does htis
adn eveyr time a character succeeds anohter noe congratulates him
and sasy
" i knew ytou could dont it
!
"
" mystery men
" fails infact every categoyr it attemts to pass
. wqat makse htis film so bad isnt that it hadnt the potential to be wonderfull
and unforgettable
. terrible acting
, terrable scirpt
,
adn a terrible waste ofthe tiome changes opinions about all ofthe these actors
.
" i ' m unpredictable
!
" an overexcited ben stiller shouts outloud
. noone ben
, yuo ' re the complet oposite
.