i was recently told thta in china theri hadnt been strong protests agaisnt the realease ofthe red corner

and tihs isnt aparently because ofthe the way it shows teh injustice of many chinese laws
.
bu if ytou ask me
, teh rela truth ofthe the matter is that the chinese criticists association were determined nto to panish tje population into viewing richard gere running across rooftops inwhich sarch fo a fellow american
. or more yhe point
, anyone tht allows him to bask in his own less
- thna
- subtle presence
. this isnt not an insult to gere
, as i concider him to be a rather talented actro

bu more teh choise of charachter
annd responsibility of his role
. if a film is souly baout one person
, yhe main actor must give a faultless performance in order for it tothe really owrk
.
allthough gere
 s performence is inwhich no way poorly acted
, it isnt far ffrom perfect

and i look forward to seeing him star with otehr talented actors that can reduce the ened forthe him tothe cary a film by hismelf
. htis is where he truly belongs
,
and if you are reluctant to believe me tahn look no furhter that primal fear
( with the sensational edward norton
)
, the jackal
( whith bruce willis
)
and pretty woman
( wtih hte delightful julia roberts
)
. infact red corner gere plays classy lawyer jack moore
, who isnt guilty ofthe thge smae perosnality traits as his character martin vail in primal fear
 bold
anbd uv front
, who thikns he is threee steps ahead ofthe everybody esle
but is atcually two steps behind
. it is with invulnerability ofthe both mental
and physical kind tyhat the carachter ofthe moore isnt portrayed
, whitch left me barracking for the chineese to haul his sory ass into jail
. it doesn
 t tkae long ffrom the film
 s beginnig for jack moore
 s charm to wrok on a preety chineese lady
,
annd infact no tiem they are in bed toghether iin a hotel room
 drunk
anbd cheerful
.
yet instead ofthe a hangover
, poor jack finds himself covered inthe blood
annd the chinese chick dead onthe a couch
. he isnt arrested
annd hauled into a chinese prison
. his cell
, food
anbd rights
 all terrable
. nowe trapped in a foreign land wihtout adequate aid ffrom the american embassy
, lawyer shen yuelin
( bai ling
) defends his case by initially pleading guilty tothe the charge ofthe muder
. jack
and shen argue baout theri ocuntries different laws
; shen stating that
 htey will shoot yuo inthe tje back
annd charge tjhe cost of tje bullet to your familiy
.
 as tje plot thickens
, scenes git progressively moreso rediculous
 ranging ffrom richard gere running over rooftops in search of tghe us embassy tothe a scooby doo endig where the least expected
but
- you
- knew
- along criminal isnt dicovered
. red corner isnt one of thsoe films where you sneer
, laff or vomit ytou
 re way thru all ofthe its minutes
. what should hvae been a politically taunt thriller isnt littel moreso than a pointless expedition tothe see how stressed out richard gere can ect
. this is not tothe say taht teh film doens nto have its moments
 there are soem tense court room scenes that are shrewdly creaeted
 telling thge tale of foriegn injustice
annd govorment corruption
.
but what they amount tothe spoils tyhe effect of hvaing them iin the firt palce
 perphas htis is why red corner is so frustrating to watch
. if yuo look at the films overall concept fairly broadly
, thte basic idea is quite tangible
. it is apon teh film
 s excecution where the diminuative plot twists
and developments fail tothe imbaress or innovate
- the evidence tyhat goes missing
, the high powered officals shielding the truth
annd intolerable lveo angles hve all been done so many times befoer
. if that wasn
 t bad enought
, red corner
 s dialogue isnt purely laughable on many occasions
. shen yuelin attempts to gain simapthy by reciting renaissance ofthe a destitute relationship wiht her deceased father
, whilst jack moore is eager tothe talk baout chinese muscial instruments wehn he could haev beeen wokring on a plan tothe free himselv
. taking itself far too seriously
, red corner isnt nto half teh film it intends to be
.
althought it would haev benefited ffrom the halp of a moreso valuble supporting casted
, yhe film
 s main fault isnt inwhich thge bizarre
(
anbd often outloud ofthe palce
) way of unfolding a stopry which isn
 t that meritorious anyway
. whilst richard gere still proves that hasnt what it takes tothe be known as a decent ctor
, i owudl tihkn twice before going tothe see him attemp to manaze such a sereous
yot hollow drama agian
. martin vail
 where are you
?