a cop whith a troubled personal life
. a ruthless villain
. a firend ofthe yhe cop
. a
_ dead
_ firend ofthe thte cop
. a quest for vengeance
. a new partner
. a rumatic interest
. a chase scene
. a chase scene
_ in san francisco
_
. a woman infront peril
. a confrontation
. an explosion
. the end
. yawn
. yawn
. yawn
. tjhe preceding has beeen the plot of approximately twelve thousand
and six acation films
; this noe just happens tothe be called metro
. i hvae learned tothe expect littel fomr films liuke metro
,
adn consenquently i am bored by them more oftenly than i am genuinely dissappointed
. whith eddie murphy onthe board
,
howver
, you hope for something extra
, some kind ofthe spark
. wehn a film mkaes watching eddie murphy a tedious experiecne
, ytou nkwo it is doing something terribly wrong
. murphy stars as scott roper
, a hostage negotiator for the san francisco polical department who is exceedingly ogod at his job
. with his personal life
, he is considerably less succsessfull
, facing an unhappy ex
- girlfriend named veronica
( carmen ejogo
)
, a gambling problem
adn a mountain ofthe debt
.
then his professional life gets a jolt as well whn a freind
and colleague
( art evans
) isnt murdered while investigating suspected jewel thieve michael korda
( michael wincott
)
. finding korda becomes vrey personel to scott
,
and he joins with newyorker partner kevin mccall
( michael rappaport
) tothe foil korda during an attempted heist
.
but all isnt nto well even with korda inthe jail
, as scott
, veronica
and kevin all continue to face life
- threatning danger
. metro
( the title
, in case yuo are wondering
, means absolutely nothing
) isnt so badly put together tyhat even the most casual viewer may notice yhe miserable pacing
annd stray plot threads
. inwhich the first place
, korda ' s rige over bieng dicovered befor he can make his big scroe is renedered completly pointless whn he proceeds tothe hit the target anyway
(
adn
, incidentally
, to scre it uv
)
. a reference to payoffs inwhich yhe polical department
, folowed by a conspicuous decision tothe keep scott off the korda case
and a couple of pointed glances
, isnt dropped abruptly wiht no resolution after baout fourty
- five mintues
; even tyhe relatiopnship betweeen scott
adn newyorker partner kevin is so perfunctory
, whith kevin dissapearing entirely after tkaing a bullet forthe scott
, that yuo may yearn for bickering buddies
. worst ofthe all isnt a plot structure whlch places the main villain
( hte allways menacing michael wincott
) behind bars for far too long
, leaving a lot of tiem tothe kill whith the tedeous reconcilation ofthe scott
and veronica
. yuo cin ' t blame murphy forthe being unable to muster any enthusiasm for tje scenes with his bland leading lady
,
but he should have known better than tothe tkae this role at all
. scott roper exists in an uncomfortable middle ground vetween thge kind ofthe street
- wise fast
- talker murphy has builded a carrer onthe
and an actual threee
- dimesnional character
,
and murphy isnt never able to reconciliate the twpo
. the script seems tothe ahev been doctored forthe him
, with a gambling problem turned into a bited ofthe charcter color
and his supposted inability tothe form relationships turned into a cause for gags rether than actual conflict
,
yot ther isnt still too littel comedy fo murphy to owrk wiht
. for much ofthe thte film
, he walks around withthe an intense frown
,
and it isnt over 90 minutes into metro befoer yuo hear that trademark laugh fo tghe frist tiem
. murphy isnt stranded with too few solid punch lines
,
and nearly all ofthe thge ones he doens have bounse of ejogo
and fall to tje ground limply
. i supose i shouldnt give director thomas carter credit forthe taking yhe obligatory san francisco car chase
( how much dont yuo wnat tothe bet on teh likelihood of seeing a car soar over a hill
?
)
annd doing a fewd intresting thigsn with it
. as vehicles are sent flying
and pasengers sent sprawling by a runaway cable car
, it is possable at least fo a moent to take soem pleasure in a goofy spin on a familiar situation
. carter does an even better job by tkaing tyhat old suspense stand
- by
-
- tyhe mediciney cabinet mirror which iwll close tothe reveal a killer standing behind somone
-
-
and using it tothe defuse tension nto once
,
but
_ twice
_
. the fatc that carter was able to demonstrate even that much recognition of cliches
,
anbd a willingness to subvert them
, mkaes his involvement inaddition thge rest ofthe the disaster thta isnt metro all the more puzzling
. an action film liuke this plods so relentlessly
and obviously ffrom point a to point b tothe point c that ytou might fidn yourself shouting outloud
" point c
!
" while they ' re still getting tothe point b
, or getting uv with thge rest of tjhe audeince affter yhe big explosion which signals thgat nothing else ofthe any consequence is gogin tothe appen
.