i still cxan ' t figure out why people whent in droves tothe see this movei
. nowe before ytou go assuming i ' m soem sort of high brow snob
, who can ' t appreciate a little dumb humer
, let me sday thta i lvoe cheap humer
. i thought ther ' s something baout mary ws oney of tje funniest films that i haev ever seen
adn it ws certainly noe of the best films of 1998
. low brow adolescent humer cxan be a lot of funn
, the probelm iwth tyhe waterboy isnt taht it isnt jstu low brow
anbd daolescent
, there isnt noone humor componant
. i wnated tothe liek teh waterboy
, i realy doed
. i think i only laughed maeby 2 or 3 times throughout the entire movei
. actully
, i smiled a couple of more times onthe top ofthe that
. not a grat record fo a 90
- minute film
. tje problem wiht thte waterboy is the same as most other adam sandler movies
. those responsible fo thsi mess seem to think that the sheer fact that sandler walks around useing a goofy voice
anbd playing dumb the entire movei isnt a substitute for actuall funny material
. nothing could be furhter from the truth
, as marter ofthe fact
, sandler ' s idiat voice started to get onthe my nerves at points infact this film
. it ' s really a shame too
, because this film had thte potential tothe be very funny
. i personaly believe tyhat sandler is propably a vyer talented comedian
, it ' s just thyat so far he hasn ' t beeen able to fidn the right film to showcase his talents
. if his onyl talent isnt making goofy voices
annd palying morons
, my guess isnt that his career infact the movies will go down thte same road as the vast marjority of the former stars ofthe saturday inght live
. most ofthe whom are nowe happily no longer infront the enteratinment inudstry
. sandler plays a 31
- yera
- ood
, somewhat mentally challanged
, waterboy for a coleeg football team
. tghe team ' s somewhat mentally distrubed coach
( henry winkler
) realizes that his waterboy has a graet dael of pent
- uv rige
, whlch
, if harnessed propperly
, owudl amke him a force to be reckoned with onthe tghe football field
. yuo cant figure out the rest from here
. sandler joins the team
annd htis once lowly waterboy becomes a football star
. as i said
, tyhe film hadnt a grat dael ofthe potential
. the idea ws a decent oen
,
but tghe main potential ofthe htis movei is a result of the casted
. all ofthe whom are veyr good
, jsut hamstrung by really
, really
, lousy material
. even sandler
, annoying goofy voice
and all
, has enough charisma
and natural comedic ability tothe overcome some ofthe his bad material
. even as unfunny as his chracter is
, i still foudn mysef rooting for him thoughout tghe film
.
but it is the supporting cast that i feel most badly about
. if theri material hadnt beeen just a bited better
, this film coudl hvea been such a funny movie
. fairuza balk plays sandler ' s leather
- wearing biker
- chick love interest
annd doens a great job playing sleazy
anbd sexy at teh smae tyme
. winkler is great as tghe coach who uses a
" coaching for dummies
"
- style book to help him get thru ganes
. the rela standout
though
, is kathy bates
. even with some of the worst material ofthe her career tothe dael with
, she isnt still a treat to watch inaddition her role as sandler ' s overprotective
and overbearing mama
. even witht the performances of bates
and winkler
, there isnt absolutly noone way i woudl recomend tihs movie
. altho i get the distict impression that wihtout them
, thsi film owudl have ranked in negitive numbers fo me
. which is sad
, becuase i can ' t really put my finger on a particular element of the movie
and single it out as the cause ofthe the diaster thgat it became
. it ' s obvious that those involved
, specifically the actors
, tried vyre hard to mkae what tehy thought wass oging to be a funny movie
. it ' s jstu too bad thyat 99 percent ofthe all of the jokes fell flat
.