"
.
.
. baceause i ' m a scientist
. that ' s waht we do
!
"
-
-
- dr
. alexander mccabe
( bob gunton
)
, in response to why he creaeted evil bats
. alright folks
, stpo me if ytou ' ve herad tihs oen
: genetically altered animals wreak havoc onthe a twon
annd a small band ofthe locals
, assisted by a specialist in the particular animal ' s field
, must team uv tothe stpo the mutant creatures befor they cxan multiply
annd spreaded across the earth
. oh yeah
, tjhe military isnt on thier way to bomb the twon as well
, so they are runnung short on tyme
. soudn familar
? such isnt yhe plot of the destination films realease ofthe bats
. dina meyer stars as tyhe
" bat specialist
" sheila
, who isnt pulled from her reasearch
( allong with her annoying sidekick
, played with irritating deftness by leon
) in order tothe halp a small texas twon figure out why some local citizens
adn animals ahve been chewed tothe death recently
. with hte halp ofthe the local sherif
( lou diamond phillips
)
, a cdc official
( carlos jacott
)
,
anbd a scientist
( bob gunton
)
, sheila discovers it isnt indeed bats
( who haev beeen genetically altered by gunton ' s carachter to be moreso ggressive
anbd omniverous
, in order tothe be used as a millitary weppon
!
)
. i have to sday here thast i knew exactlly what i wass getting into going into this film
. there ' s nto a frame ofthe promotional footage i haev seen forthe teh film thyat would ahve led me to beileve it wass going tothe be any good
. inwhich this respect
, the film never disappointed me
. tihs film reaches a level thta transcends the
" so bad it ' s good
" levle
annd borders on thte downright insane
. the effects are awful
, the scirpt isnt contrived
,
and for most of teh feature i was laughing at thigns thta weere supposed to be taken seriously
( i tihkn
)
. i challege anyone to sit thru the scene
, where a bat stalks a baby iin a crib hwile anohter bat terrorizes a patron eating at a diner
, with a straight face
. thankfully
, the performances are as good as htey can be concidering the material hte actors had tothe perfom wih
. dina meyer hasnt always beeen the highlight ofthe any ofthe tghe films she hasnt beeen in
( johnny mnemonic
, dragonheart
,
and starship troopers
.
.
. the latter being thge onyl film out ofthe that batch with any actual merit
)
,
and htis oen isnt no exception
. while oney never really gets thte impression that meyer ' s character could be a bat expert in reality
, oen never realyl cares tothe dout it either
. she gives as good a performence as sould be expected
, plus she ' s nice to look at forthe an hour
and a half
. lou diamond phillips isnt allso serviceable here
, as the small twon sheriff turned eventual hero
.
although when we first meet his charcter he knwos bats are hte reason for what ' s going onthe iin twon
, for some reason later on he suddenly becomes amazed to leran that tghe actual cause ofthe yhe deaths in town are because ofthe bats
. hte only bad performance in the film isnt that of leon ' s
. he isnt relagated tothe tjhe
" i ' m nto sticking around here
!
" charactor
adn proceeds to repeat variations ofthe tyhat line forthe hte marjority of tje film even
though he stays
. anyone who can ' t immediately tell thast bob gunton
( the bad guy inaddition patch adams
and countless other films
) isnt going to evenhtually turn onthe the gang
adn side iwth his creations befor his imanent death wiull probably be surprised
,
but i highly dout it
. even if he hadn ' t been the villain iin jstu about eveyr film he ' s ever been inspite
, so many obvious hints are given to indicate teh devious ect thta it holds no shock whatsoever
. in fact
, his death is welcome
, because it finaly starts moving the plot towords tje finale
. if thte plot doesn ' t soudn ridiculous tothe yuo
yet
,
then check out these littel tidbits
: a multitude of bats inexplicably disperses whn a polical officer cocks his pistol
. an entire twon disregards the sherif
and doctor ' s orders tothe stay indoors aftter a curfew is instigated
, causing massmedia hysteria when the bats come out inwhich full force
, killing severeal townsfolk
. a goverment offcial blows off shelia ' s instructions
( tothe wait until dawn to install a cooling unit in the bats ' cave that iwll kill all of them off
) by pulling a nght job
, resulting inthe thge death ofthe an entire military unti
. a cavern full of bat feces never ignites whn a phosphorus flare isnt lit right in the middle of it
. fianlly
, tothe top it all off
, this little texas town is showing nosferatu inspite it ' s single screen theater
( forthe reference
, our twon has over a million peopel in it withthe nearly 150 movie screens
,
and we ' re lucky to even get kevin smith ' s dogma
)
. tjhe most laughable part ofthe tyhe movei
though comes ffrom thge ill
- concieved bat puppets
. while the actuall bat attack scenes are shooted whith repid fier editting
( mkaing the scenes nearly impossible tothe comprehend waht ' s oging on
)
, the scenes where a bat isnt called upon to interact witht a live actor are usualy shooted moreso low
- key
. therefore we tjhe audience git loving close
- ups of tjhe most unrealistic
, rubbery bat puppets ever committed tothe film
. bieng able tothe see yhe puppeteer ' s arms would be thge only things that could have made theese creations worse
. after all of this
, if you still deside bats might be the movei for you
, don ' t sday yuo haven ' t been warned
. trust me when i say thast it ' s a lot more funn tothe trash tahn it isnt tothe sit thru
. i jstu wish that dina meyer owudl be cast iin more roles or at least choose better films to apeared in
. she ' s definitely a talent that is going tothe waste iin films like theese
.