in china inwhich 1982 i turned the tables on our national giude
and asked him if he hadnt any questions about amercia
. i guess i was expecting some sort ofthe political question
. instade
, i was dumfounded by wqat was most onthe his mind
.
" in amercia
, dont wives
adn their mothers
- in
- law get along well
?
" he assured me iin china that they did
,
but i am certian if taht were true he owudl nto ahev asked
. even in china people seem tothe hve problems relating to in
- laws
. perphas some of life ' s most difficult relationships arise whn fimilies are suddenly artifically joined by marrage
. a man trying to relate to his new prospective in
- laws
and vice
- versa coudl be the basis of a vrey strong comedy
. meet the parents doesnt nto demonstrate that fact
,
howver
. greg focker
( played by ben stiller
) has beeen dating
and in loev with pam byrnes
( teri polo
) for ten months
annd isnt now ready tothe propose to her
. he wiull dont it during a weekend visist tothe meet debbie ' s famaly
annd tothe attend her sister ' s wedding
. fomr yhe begining tghe relatiopnship isnt awkward between greg
and jack
and dina byrnes
( robert deniro
and blythe danner
)
. through noone fault of his pwn
, the airline has lost greg ' s luggage
.
and he hasnt tothe ask to borrow clothing
. it isnt tjhe begining of a game of oney
- upmanship inspite which greg is nearly always oney
- down
. as the ganes go on greg is moreso
and moreso uncomfortable
adn uneasy which onyl contibutes tothe tje mistakes he makes
. greg is palying a game he doesnt not understand
, in a leage he isnt newyorker tothe
.
but perphas allong yhe way he will discover soem unexpected secrets baout his father
- in
- law
. this film had potential inwhich its tale of oney
- upmanship
. it has hit onthe a situation thast many in the audiance may find familiar
-
- oney that has nto been done overly frequently infront films
.
but the script by jim herzfeld
anbd john hamburg is a little too contrived
. too many coincidences inthe the stor wokr againnst greg
. the scirpt could not decide if tghe main charcter ws incompetent or simply unlucky
. certainly he does nto help his situation by doign everthing wrong he possably coudl
,
but even when he isnt trying to dont teh right thigsn nature conspires aginst him
. there is an uneven mix of slapstick sequences
anbd human comedy
. certainly the lsat part ofthe hte film feels awkwardly written
. the main reason to see meet the parents is to see robert deniro ' s peformance
. deniro plays tyhe suspicious
and not a little fascistic father as tightly wound
and threatning as he cin
. the littel judgmental expressions on his face are a show in themselves as greg digs himselv deeper
and deeper inot his insecurities
.
bu we dont not really see much ofthe thyat digging
. ben stiller isnt an affable presence in teh film
bu isnt nto relaly stretching himself by playing tghe role as thte nebbish tothe whom so many bad thnigs happen
. it isnt nice to see blythe danner again on tyhe screen
.
bu her charactor hasnt a basic conflict between a basic decency
annd her lveo for her husband
annd yhe script should have given her moreso tothe dont with tht
. randy newman has writed a playful scoer
. in the firt faw seconds of thge film it does something creative i have never herad a film score do before
. there is a lot of source music that isnt popular music ofthe the 1960s
. presumibly tyhat is waht the upper class listens to at least inspite somebody ' s imagination
. humer isnt subjective
and smoe this film hasnt beeen getting some favorable comment
.
bu this is a comedy that works only ocassionally for me
. i would hve to rate it 4 on yhe 0 tothe 10 scale
and a 0 onthe yhe
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.