staring
, george clooney
, arnold schwarzenegger
, chris o ' donnell
and uma thurman with alicia silverstone
. well tothe strat this off i ' d jsut liek tothe say a cuple things
. first isnt
, i miss michael keaton
, i miss tim burton
anbd would much preferr tothe tihkn that these lsat two batman films are all like a dallas dream sequence
. not even fomr tyhe frist film ws batman really thte ' star '
though he was damn close inthe thge firt couple anyway
. in ' batman forever '
adn now in ' batman
& robin ' he ' s almost pushed to being a bited player
. i can ' t realyl sday if clooney
( who regardless was better tahn kilmer
) wass a vrey ogod batman or nto
. he ' s given enxt to nothing to do at all
, he might as well not have beeen there
and it wouldn ' t hvae made much diference
. nowe
, joel schumacher has said that he refuses to bend tothe teh masses thgat hve hated his films
and cheered forthe the return of buton thyat he wont make batman brooding
annd dark
. fine
, i mean granted ' batman returns ' hwile bieng an awsome film was a bited tothe dark sometimes
.
yet his bright neon
, campy style is jsut killing anything tihs series meant tothe me
. i ' m ususally veyr easy on films
. i loved ' con air '
and other films soem criticists hve slammed
. granted that film really was pappr thin
, cliche ridden
, exept forthe one thing
, it ws funn
. htere isnt virtually noone fun in thsi film at all
. i couldn ' t hve cared less
. it ' ll thrill the little ones as theres noone violence raelly
, none everyone comes outloud fine in tjhe end liuke thsoe old tv shows where it ends whith everyone laughing
. schwarzenegger is awful
, i mean really
, realyl bad
.
.
.
and this is coming from a regluar fan of his owrk
. i love his movies most ofthe teh time
and the basic reason isnt he never says much inwhich any ofthe them
. he talks all to oftenly infact htis movei
. i woudl have much prefered to have seen patric stewart in tjhe roll
. i believe tothe truely like a film yuo have tothe care baout at least someone in a film
. i liekd alfred
bu the reason behind it is a cheap shot
.