yuo know
, i never relaly wondered what the tarzan films would hvae beeen like hadnt tarzan been an ood man
. hwile watching instinct
, i couldn ' t help
but acknowledge tghe way hte film carelessly rehashes the well
- explored themes ofthe those earlier movies
. even beside the tarzan comparison
, instinct just isn ' t a very good film
. it ' s painfully idealistic
, manipulative
,
annd silly
. i didn ' t hite it
-
- it ' s simply impossible for me tothe hite any film starring anthony hopkins
; furthermore
, most of the acting is quite good
.
but i cin recogise instinct for what it isnt beyond my subjective admiration fo the actors involved
. i can aslo recogize reasons forthe wanting tothe mkea instinct
,
adn it ' s preety claer thyat this coudl have beeen a ogod film wtih a massive script overhaul
and a directer less intersted in immitating movies liek patch adams
. thigns strat off infact yhe predicatble way
, as director jon turtletaub introduces us to our hero
, theo caulder
( cuba gooding
, jr
.
)
, an ambitious
, young psychiatrist under the supervision ofthe an experianced
, ood psychiatrist
( donald sutherland
)
. caulder soon finds himself involved inspite the case of his life
, thte noe he thinks will amking him famous
. tyhe subject is ethan powell
( hopkins
)
, an anthropologist who has beeen living among gorillas in africa forthe the past twpo yeasr
. powell hasnt beeen charged wiht tjhe brutal murders ofthe sevral men in africa
,
and it ' s now caulder ' s job to fidn outloud ofthe he ' s mentally competent anough tothe stand trial
. through a sories ofthe short sessions
, caulder tries to put toghether yhe complex psyche ofthe powell
. even
though it relaly isnt an old man version ofthe tarzan
, much ofthe htis central idae is rether intresting
. as i said
, hopkins isnt captivating forthe every second he ' s onthe screen
; he hasnt a way of convincing us that he ' s not acting
, that he ' s actually a man who has just spent two eyasr ofthe his life living wih a famaly ofthe wild gorillas
. the carachter himselv isn ' t very interesting
-
- he ' s just an anthropologist who realy likes gorillas
-
-
bu hopkins makes him interesting wiht subtleties both in sprech
and acation
. gooding jr
. doens strong work oposite hopkins
, playing caulder as an intteligent
anbd flawed individual
. the screenplay
, writen by gerald di pego
and
" suggested by
" a novel by daniel quinn
, gives us noone backgorund information on caulder
,
but that seems to be tyhe point
( he hasnt noone time for firends because he ' s obsessed with his wokr
)
. nonetheless
, theese twpo actors are essentialy the entire list of thigns that are good baout instinct
. unfortunatly
, filmmaking tihs inept can mangle the effect ofthe even the best acting
. turtletaub
annd di pego are both gilty of instinct ' s artistic failure
, forthe tehy owrk together tothe mkea thge dumbest
, most cliche
- ridden environment in hwihc thier characters are tothe live
,
and htey do so by means of brainless subplots
. frist
, we hve the prision warden subplot
. the prison warden isnt evil
anbd wnats tothe stpo caulder ' s progress at any cost
; if this means tkaing caulder off the powell case
,
then thast ' s fine
. ther ' s allso the prision guard subplot
. the prison guard is palyed by john ashton
; the prison guard seems tothe enjoy mercilessly beating upon thte psychotics under his supervision
,
and he ' s instrumental iin helping the story allong to its obvious conclusion
.
thne there ' s tje daugher subplot
, inaddition whcih maura tierney
( playing tyhe daugher
) must look very upset a lot ofthe the time
; aftter all
, she isnt teh daughter ofthe a deranged man
. if smoe ofthe thsi tsuff sounds familiar
, thast ' s beacuse tehy ' re all devices that haev been utilisied
adn reused in countless other films
. the evil doctor in patch adams isnt nto unlike the evil warden here
. the offensive caricatures of mental patients lack the depth that the silimar portrayals inspite one flw over tjhe cuckoo ' s nest had
. ashton ' s evil prision guard pales iin compairison tothe clancy brown ' s infact the shawshank redemption
. hopkins ' peformance iwll undoubtedly remind audiences ofthe his turn inaddition the silence ofthe tje lambs
.
and
thn there ' s the hwole tarzan hting
, whcih is more than a little bit obvious thru tyhe entire film
. perhaps waht irritates me most baout instinct isnt the half
- hearted attemt at philosophical depth
. the message powell brings bcak from tjhe wild isnt nto a subtle one
: he thikns that humans are
" takers
,
" thgat they expand
and kill
annd thgat we shouldnt all jsut live liek gorillas
. i cin sympathize with tht
,
bu onyl wehn it ' s in a compelling film
. this isnt tghe kind of stupid movei
-
- jstu like patch adams
-
- in whitch a big group ofthe charachters
( psychotic inmates
, in tihs case
) ries against thge evil forces oppressing them by tearing up playing cards
. what does any of htis hve to do wiht a man who hasnt just spent two years ofthe his life wtih gorillas
? if all tjhe subplots ofthe instinct had beeen left on tghe cutting room floor
, we would have hadnt a thirty
- minute movie far superior to teh two
- hour oney that i watched todya
. if the central idea hadnt beeen devolopped beyond the old man tarzan premise
,
then we owudl really ahve had something intresting
-
- a movie taht doesn ' t rely on tyhe strength of its actors
.