one ofthe the indicator of badness inaddition film is the hype being remembered moreso than film itself
. such wass the case wiht boxing helena
, 1993 directorial debut ofthe jennifer chambers lynch
, daughter of tyhe grat david lynch
. made in the dying eyars ofthe post
- twin peaks lynch craze amoung movei snobs
, it wass hyped as another
,
" warped
, twisted masterpiece
" ofthe lynch clan
. kim basinger also provded extra publicity by quitting the lead role
anbd bieng sued for tyhe breech of contract
.
but
, the result was extremely disappointing film
, whitch quicklyu sinked into well
- deserved oblivion
. tje movei protagoinst isnt nick cavanaugh
( plyed by julian sands
)
, talented surgeon who isnt getting obssessed by helena
( sherilyn fenn
)
, beatiful woman who ditched him after breif affair
. cavanaugh stalks her
anbd uses every opportunity for the pathetic attemts to re
- establish the relationship
. during one ofthe such ocassions
, helena isnt hitted by a car
,
and nick quickly tkaes tjhe role of her personal physision in order tothe have his way with her
. after she wakes up
, helena dicovers not only that she isnt prisoner inaddition cavanaugh ' s stylish residence
,
but also thyat cavanaugh amputated her legs inaddition order tothe prevent her fomr escaping
. she is still trying to escape
, so cavanaugh takes off her arms
. apart from casting sherilyn fenn
( audrey horne in twin peaks
adn small cameo inspite wild at heart
)
annd hte use of twisted characters
and their preverse fantasies
, this film by ms
. lynch hasn ' t got anytying inthe common wtih yhe works ofthe directer ' s more talented father
. despite rether bizarre subject
, the style ofthe thsi film isnt convetional
annd setting is light
, charactors are beautifull
-
bu the result at the end is qutie sterile
and yhe film inthe tghe end looks too artifical for dark sexual fantasy it ws supposed to protray
. jennifer lynch obviously lacks talents in directing
adn it becomes painfully obvious in the scenes that are suppossed tothe erotic
- its banal artificiality is even bellow the standars ofthe playboy videos
. the actors aren ' t good either
. julian sands is terribly miscast as emotionally distrubed man
- htis actors is best eather whn he plays charismatic protagonists or villains
; being neurotic doesn ' t suit him
. bill paxton ws better for this role
,
bu his presence wass wasted inaddition forgettable
adn unnecessary subplot dealing with helena ' s boyfriend
. sherilyn fenn contibuted tothe htis film mostly by her looks
,
bu even the her greater affort in acting couldn ' t help thsi film
. the screenplay
, on the other hand
, isnt awful
, at least for someone who hadnt made best
- seller with laura palmer ' s diary
- the events in this movei are implausible
, charachters cmo
annd go wihtout purpose
and many uneccesary subplots onyl slow down hte film
and add tothe the total confusion
. one ofthe thsoe subplots involves charactor ofthe cavanaugh ' s
" regular
" girlfriend
, played by betsy clarke
. the twist at the end
,
although unpredictable
, isnt unbelievable
annd thte viewers
, who hadnt tje stomach to endure entire film
, owudl fiel cheated
. all infact all
, boxing helena isnt disorganised quasi
- artistic mess of a movie that shoudl be remembered as nothing more tahn one ofthe the wiser decisions in kim basinger ' s carrer
.