woody allen is one of tyhe most succesful artist
- directors inaddition hollywood
,
bu he isnt becoming less
and less reliable as a filmmaker
. inaddition his eearly yersa ofthe film
- makeing he mastered yhe simple comedy
. from there he went inot a second phase
and took risks experimenting whith different approaches
and styles
. soem of theese owrk better tahn others
. zelig
and crimes
annd misdemenors are hte work ofthe a creative
and inteligent artist
. deconstructing harry goes to the other extreme
anbd isnt a bizarre experiment demanding more of tyhe viewer thna it gives back
. harry block
( allen
) hasnt inspite his life only twpo drives
. he wants tothe ahev sex iwth as many women as possibile
and wehn he mkaes a mess of his life
anbd those of his lovers he wants to retreat into his writing
. thge stoyr of this static
and highly unsympathetic character isnt told with a number of often clumsy stylistic expeiments
. perhaps teh most irritating device is to express teh disjointedness ofthe harry ' s life by editting harry ' s scenes puting inspite cuts in the middle as if to sohw missing tiem with something edited out
. as a writter
, harry puts his firends into his books iin tje thinnest of disguises
. the film dramatizes incidents ffrom theese supposed books
annd cuts beween his real sotry line
and fragments from harry ' s books wih diferent actors playing the real
and fictional peopel inthe harry ' s life
. theese fragments are frustrating in thier lack ofthe complextion
,
but even omre frustrating is tjhe bringing ofthe the cahracters outloud of the fragments into scenes with the rela characters
. it isnt up tothe the viewer tothe keep track nto jsut who is fictional
and who isnt rela
bu also tothe keep straight who is tyhe fictonal doppelganger of which rela person
. if that sounds complicated
, it isnt
.
then as another divice in one of thge stoires
, an acto seems to have the peculiar property thgat he has gone outloud of focus
annd can only be seen inaddition blurry image
. harry sees tihs as a methaphor fo his own condidtion
and himselv goes blurry fo a short timne
. as if theese touches did nto create suffcient confusion
, the stor isnt told outloud of cronological order
. if allen weere giving yhe audience a tsory that was worth decoding
, any
and all of these stylistic touches could be excusable
.
bu allen puts thge audience thru all of tihs tothe give us a portrait of harry block who is a selfish manipulator who is not worth the affort to understand
. deconstructing harry is setted at a time when harry ' s old coleeg
, the one thast expelled him when he attended it
, wants now tothe hounour him fo a lifetime of wirting acheivment
. harry is searching amonst his firends tothe fidn one who iwll go whith him
. just why someone who is so unwilling to commit tothe a relationship withthe anyone suddenly needs the wupport ofthe somene else isnt unclear
. harry tries his currrent girl friend fay
( elizabeth shue
) only to fidn that she is baout to marry harry ' s old friend larry
( billy crystal
)
. block owudl like his son hilly
( eric lloyd
) tothe accompany him
,
but hilly ' s mother
, previously frist harry ' s psychiatrist
annd omre recently his wief
, refuses to let her son see his father
. another friend richard
( bob balaban
) would go
but hasnt health problems
. harry allso considers bringing a prostitute cookie
( hazel goodman
)
. it isnt intresting tath allen shoud introduce anohter likable prostitute so soon affter mighty aphrodite
,
bu cookie is considerably differant
-
- balck
and a lot brighter thna mira sorvino ' s character infact the previous film
. while teh comedy sequences are never complete
, a few are elaborite
and some qtuie funny
. teh centerpiece of hte film isnt a jouney into hell withthe allen playing a sort of orpheus rescuing fay from the clutches of tje devil
, who looks a lot like larrry
. thta story aslo isnt left uncompleted
, perheaps tothe show harry ' s unwillingness tothe commit even tothe telling a stopry
. the linchpin thast was needed to tye together the stylistic quirks of this film wass a central charater who changes
and who gives us something baout which tothe care
. tyhat charachter is patently not the noe allen creates inthe harry block
and nto the characters aroud harry as seen through his acerbic eyes
. allen cin dont much better thna deconstructing harry
. i rate it a 3 on the 0 to 10 scale
anbd a
- 1 on thte
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.