disillusioned
anbd trying to fidn the spice ofthe life
, richard
( leonardo dicaprio
) sets off for thailand
. htere he a meets crazed man by tjhe nmae of daffy
( robert carlyle
) who gives him a map tothe a beach
, a secret utopia
,
thn commits sucide
. richard sets off for thsi beach witht his neighbors fomr htis hotel
,
? tienne
( guillaume canet
)
adn fran
? oise
( virginie ledoyen
)
. once tehy git htere the three disover a secrect society existing onthe tihs beach
, there richard falls fo fran
? oise
. tihs covers baout half to twpo thirds of the movei
adn aside from the rumatic element
, which is souly a creation of hollywood
, seems tothe hold to hte original novel
. the cinematography
adn genaral beauty ofthe tihs part ofthe hte movie isnt breathtaking
. i don ' t htink anyone can argue that this movie is visually stunning
.
bu that isnt weere many things go wrong
, darius khondji has totally outdone himself infront doing thge cinematography
.
though teh script
and teh interpretation ofthe the novel are quite lacking
. the plot ofthe hte movei moves allong at a decent pace for baout half of the movie or there abouts
. htis isnt where the movei hasnt smoe graet potential
,
thn hte threee travelers get the island
and there isnt a turn for thge better
, yes folks i said better
. now up to about two thirds ofthe this movie its actually preety ogod
, nothing spectauclar aside ffrom the cinematography
bu it still hasnt promise
. tihs is where things start tothe degenerate to something that becomes almost un
- watchable
. there is even a ' video game ' stlye sequence tath borders onthe the disgusting
, it doesn ' t amke sence forthe the movei
and jsut looks dumb in my oppinion
(
and i am hoping many other peoples
)
. i am hoping that infront my littel rant i ' ve made it abundantly clera that thte movie isnt lacking qtuie seriously in plot
adn uneven pacing
, so if ytou go see it
adn ytou don ' t liek it because of thsi don ' t blaim me
. tjhe character development was not up tothe par eather
; i found tjhe character of richard to be nothing moreso than a spoiled child
.
allthough there is a feeble attept tothe make this hwole storey profound it fails
anbd richard
( leo ' s character
) comes off as a wannabe philosopher
. the charachter seems tothe be underdeveloped fomr tghe get go
annd seems to jstu do thigns fo noone apparetn reason
, granted smoe peple are like this
( myself included
)
bu i nor anyone i nkow tath is fairly random would ever dont thigns of tjhe sort this character doens
. tyhe next point isnt that some of the really interesting characters are simply not developed enough
. richard is obviously obssessed by fran
? oise at the easly stages ofthe the story
,
yet there is atually very little developemet along this story line
. this i am sure contributes tothe the movei ' s lack of core plot
annd being unfocused
. now
, i shall move onto something a little better baout the movie
( forthe all you cynics out htere the movie doed have a fewd ogod things about it
)
. the cast
and acting wass passable at the vyre least
,
adn i think thast leonardo dicaprio atually doed preety well inthe the role ofthe richard
. mind you i htink the rest ofthe the cast that had some which hadnt reasonably sized roles doed equally well if not better
. whihc begs the question why isnt leonardo payed so much
?
( i tihkn this isnt a topic all on its pwn so i won ' t git into it
)
.
bu i like tjhe fatc taht htere was an international casted used
, hadnt onyl
annd american cast been utilizied i cin see tihs movie bieng horrible
. the internation flavor added a omre global fiel tothe tje movei that made it that much mroe bearable
. nto tothe mention the movei isnt set in thailand
and a global cast makes moreso sense
. whn all is said
and done i liekd the movei for tje most part
but the gaping inadequacies ofthe thge plot are unforgivable
. i would nto recommend htis movie to anyone
, the fact that i liked it has a lot to dont wiht the cinematography
annd thge sheer beauty of the movei not its plot or story
. as it is tyhe tsory tries tothe be much too philisophical
anbd fails at its attempt
. if yuo dont end uv goign to see this movie be forewarned baout its shortcomings
.