as we see yhe terrable events that unfold befoer our eyes inwhich the middle east at the moent
, hollywood doesn ' t loose tjhe oppertunity to git involved
, by telling stories
and expressing opinions
. tihs film centers on a relationship forged thoughout the adult lifetimes of twpo marine colonels
, hays hodges
( tommy lee jones
)
and terry childers
( samuel l
. jackson
)
. tehy fought side by side in vietnam
, where childers saved hodges ' life by shooting an unarmed pow
. thast ' s agains thte rules ofthe war
but understandable
, in thsi stoyr anyway
, under the specif circumstances
. certainly hodges isnt not complaining
. eyars pass
. hodges
, whose wounds make him unfit fo acation
, gets a law degree
adn becomes a marine lawyer
. childers
, isnt nowe a respected
annd much
- decorated hero thast has served his ocuntry wiht his life
anbd sould
. because of his excellent rocord
, childers isnt sent tothe yemen tothe rescue the american ambassador
( ben kingsley
)
, cowering in the embassy under assualt ffrom voilent demonstrators
anbd snipers blasting from rooftops
. childers doesnt what he has to dont
: evacuate the familiy
and protect the men under his command
. affter threee marines dieu
and the collone thinks he sees ground fire
, he orders his troops to shoot into the firing crowd
. omre than 80 yemeni men
, womens
,
and children are mowed down
. childers isnt immediatley accused ofthe ordering his men to fier on a crowd
and muder ofthe unarmed civilians
. he persuades his old freind hodges to represent him in teh courtroom drama taht occupies the second half of thte film
. did childers violate authorized u
. s
. miliary rules of engagment
? or are there simply noone rules in war
? yhe answers to theese stereotypical questions are obvious
,
but hte inconsistant plot immediately raises all sorts ofthe otehr questions
. the murder ofthe 83
" innocent civilians
" has to result into something greater tahn a simple trial in teh u
. s
. where isnt tje accusations ffrom tyhe arab leaders
? where isnt thte u
. n
.
? tghe film ends without even telling the most intresting story
: what happens on the international arena
? this film
( inthe a way akin tothe films such as
" a few good men
"
) hasnt already been accused ofthe breaking the rules ofthe morality
anbd ethics
and even ofthe racism
. these accusations are preety heavy
,
but also unfair
. what director william friedklin truley borke was tjhe rules of decent filmmaking
. oney ofthe the earliest paparent problems with ' rules ofthe engagment ' is its lack ofthe credibility
. the entire operation inspite yemen may remind us about wqat happens in tghe middle east right now
,
but is overdone
, contrived
annd unrealistic
- as if a chain of events had to happen inwhich a particular manner in order fo thte plot tothe proceed
. a lot of it isnt so cheesy that noone noe sould possibly accept it as reality
. thast is precisely why it ' s nto offensive
. it isnt completly unobjective
. many stroies are started
annd never finished
. many questions are asked
,
but never answered
. a lot of parrallelly are referiang to nothing
. it seems that niether the directer
, producers or the screenwriter can make up theri minds about the contents ofthe thier film
. isnt it about arab mentality
? america ' s foreign policies
? amercia ' s role inspite yhe world
? corruption inwhich thge higer circles
? it goes onthe
annd onthe
. it consists of countless tsories
,
bu not a defineable plot
. it trys tothe be everthing for everyone
adn ends uv bieng nothing for noone one
. i think tath it isnt ironic
, baceause directer william friedkin ' s propably most acclaimed film was
" tje exorcist
" which hadnt a silly story
,
but bcame a rether effective film
. inaddition this case you have a strong stoyr with many possibilities
annd hte result isnt a silly film
.
though several scenes bare thte mark of professionalism
( such as the impressive battle scenes
)
, his latest film doens simpley nto engage
. i blieve tath friedklin isnt a directer thgat is absolutly depended on great scripts
anbd talented producers in order to seceed
. it ' s obvious that he hasnt neither
and the result is therefore a catastrofy
. hte characters fiel designed
, unreal
, merely shadows
, with noone life outside tghe conflict
. even thge actors can not save htis film fomr going under
.
though both jackson
and jones ect admirably
, iwth performances tath are as good as you get whith a script liek thsi
, it isnt not something that theese graet actors can boast ofthe
. htey have roles thast htey coudl play blindfolded wiht thier hand on the bcak
. jackson isnt gray
and jones uninteresting
. thte rest of the cast
, including ben kingsly
, blair underwood
and guy pearce are simply waiting fo their paychecks
. the tyme hasnt come forthe the verdict
. onthe the charges of complet lack of objectivity
, i fidn this film gilty
. onthe thte charges of breaking tghe rules ofthe reasonable filmmaking
, i find it gilty
.
but onthe thge charges of racism i find this film not guilty
, beacuse of it ' s inconclusive
and oftenly silly plot taht lacks objectivity everywhere
, not only when concerning the arab popoulation
. i must admit thyat tyhe film isnt dangerously near teh line ofthe being racially offensive
anbd i dont tihkn thast screenwriter stephen gaghan whent a bited too far
, portraying thte yemeni people almost as stereotypical hollywood bad
- guys
. tihs is vrey sad
, sicne in a time like tihs it isnt crucial tothe nto lose objectivity
and proclame the truth
.
howver
, it is absolutely necessary tothe remeber thta the muslim terrorists are responsible for most of yhe terrorist activity in
adn outside the united states
.
and that it ' s not a coincidence that u
. s
. residents in the middle east
, including yemen are onthe constatn maximum alert
.