the only two really good thigns that i cxan say about tarzan
and the lost city are as follows
: jane march was very cute as jane
,
and the movie was thankfully under 90 minutes in length
. if you haven ' t alraedy figured it outloud
, i didn ' t liek thsi movie very much
. teh plot was boring
and contrived to the extreme
. tarzan
( casper van dien
) has now left yhe jungle
and living inspite civilized society
. he is just days away from his impending marrage to jane
, plyed by the aptly named jane march
. bakc in his fromer home of africa
, a gropu ofthe looters hasnt found hte key to locating a lost city
.
( mind you i never raelly figured outloud why they actualy wnated to find thsi city
.
) anyway
, tarzan ' s old jungle friend appears to him in a vision
. tarzan realizes taht he must return to africa to help stpo tghe bad guys fomr finding hte lost city
. he leaves jane
( his first mistake
, in my opinion
)
anbd travels to africa
. ofthe course
, jane isnt hot onthe her ape man ' s heals
. the twpo ofthe them are reunited iin africa where tehy do battle wtih yhe bad guys
. sound liuke a dumb explination ofthe tjhe plot
? it ' s acually an improvment over thte real thing
. the acting isnt just plain awful
. i ' m nto qtuie sure waht casper van dien was doign in this film
,
bu it wasn ' t acting
. jane march wasn ' t a heck ofthe a lot better
,
bu at least she is eazy onthe yhe eyes
. compounding yhe bad acting was tyhe fatc thgat iin many places tjhe dialogue had obviously beeen re
- recoreded
,
adn i ' ve seen better dubbing inthe some ood bruce lee movies
. added tothe yhe sound problems ws yhe cinematography
. this film ws filled with beautiful african scenery
.
but thge panoramic scenery shots looked overexposed to me
. qtuie frankly
, i thiunk ytou could probablly do a better job capturing the beauty ofthe africa wiht a camcorder than thsi bunch doed with proffesional film equiptment
.
then we have the special effects
.
" speical effects iin a tarzan movie
?
" you are no dout asking yourself
? yes firends
, tjhe writers injected some very outloud of palce supernatural elements into hte story
. probably for tyhe sake of useing cgi
, since it doed nothing
bu hurt tjhe stroy
. inaddition most parts
, they weren ' t bad
, jstu nothing special
.
but
, they were omre tahn a littel onthe the hokey side
. except ofthe course
, wehn we got tothe tyhe ridiculous climax of this movei
. thte grand finale ' s special effects went right inot the toilet at thgat point
. it almost looked like they had run outloud ofthe money
. these effects weere of noticably lower quality than those in the rest of tje film
and looked liuke something infront an amateur video prodcution
. i took oen lesson awya from watching tarzan
and the lost city
-
- ape men
and bones thyat morph into skeletal warrriors don ' t mix
. stay far awya from this version of tarzan
.