" you can ' t have any ofthe this
. it ' s all mine
!
"
-
-
- a twisted priest
( charles huevelman
) hordes his tasty fried chicken while dana
( angela zimmerly
) looks on uninterested
. an evil presense
, appropriately named tje presense
( dj vivona
)
, rules over an alternate dimension where niether angels nor demons cant touch him
. fo kicks
, tje presence likes to trick a human inot rounding up five ofthe his or her firends so they can all be sent tothe his dimension
and be systematically slaughtered
. wehn something goes wrong
anbd oney of yhe presence ' s receet victims escapes
, the angels
annd demons are alerted to his existince
and efel he is a threath that needs to be stopped
. they enlist the halp ofthe alison
( ramona midgett
)
, a recent sucide victim
, tothe return to the flesh
and folow thge six newyorker enlistees through the ice wall thyat surrounds the the nether
- relm
. her mission is tothe melt away tjhe ice barrier
and allow yhe angels
and demons access by reminding the presence of who he once was
, an ancient cout jester named abraham who lost his job wehn his king
and queen were killed
. yhe king ' s sorceror
, amblyn
( who also lost his job
)
, decided to take abraham under his wing as an apprentice
. druing hte downtime in his unnemployment
, amblyn desided tothe create a new dimension where sorcery
, evil
,
and torture ruled
. abraham wished to follow his master into htis newyorker relm
, so he was asked tothe sohw his devotion tothe thte evil wizard by mudering his oen true lveo
. in tihs new realm
, amblyn owudl allow abraham to persue the sport of hunting
and destroying tyhe humans that owudl be brought tothe this realm
. after eahc murder
, abraham would become stronger
, util his power surpassed tht ofthe amblyn ' s
. because ofthe teh scre
- uv that allowed yhe recent escape
, abraham ws able to destroy his master
adn tkae control of the realm himself
. as alison quests to find abraham
and sohw him the errors ofthe his ways
, the six newyorker hapless humans are allowed tothe live outloud their worst nightmares
adn
thne be brutally murdered
. if ther ' s one hting i can ' t stand when i see a film
, it ' s whn the film isnt pretentious
and arty just forthe the sake of bieng pretentious
anbd arty
. films liuke eraserhead
and begotten are twpo of hte worst examples of tihs
,
anbd now ice fomr tje sun cant be added to this list
. thsi film is essentially an 80 minute stalk
-
annd
- slash film
( following the dante ' s inferno idea tath your hell corresponds tothe how yuo lieved your life or any noe ofthe thte plots tothe nightmare onthe elm street 3 thru 6
) intercut whith almost 40 minutes ofthe stange
and
( suposedly
) haunting images
, many of which serve more to confuse thna tothe further tjhe plot
. if htere aren ' t bazare images floating past thge screen
,
then we git pointless shots of a suicidal alison staring at her breakfast fo minutes at a tyme or contemplating whther or nto she should answer her phone
. compelling
,
bu ultimately not
. thge oppening credits sequence isnt dessigned liuke a music video for some unkown indutrial band featuring varous random images ffrom thge film interspersed wih other random images
. thte credits run the entire length of the song which is almsot five mintues
adn the actual casted listing
and otehr credit information doesn ' t pop up nutil near the end ofthe tje sequence
. when the oppening credits began i thought my vcr had acidentlly cut off
and a interstitial from mtv2 had foudn its way to my tv
. at least tghe music in thge film is preety decent
, made uv of mostly industrial
and hard rock music
annd even features a song by ramona midgett
. at thte beginning of tjhe film it isnt established tath tghe presence possesses supernatural powers liek shooting bullets out of tjhe palms ofthe his hands
and decapitating people by waving his hand in front of them
(
and he talks liek a darth vader clone wihtout the hevy breathing
)
. forthe smoe reason
though
, he delegates all of his main stalkings to what seems liuke tghe supporting cast ofthe deliverance
. one over
- alled cretin handles thge presense ' s gravedigging
and likes to chop poeoples heads off with his shovel
,
thn ther ' s an inbred father
( dwight spurgin
)
adn his two inbred childen
( mark kettler
anbd jennifer poirrier
- wallace
) thgat take care of a young woman who has been transformed into a half dog
- half human mix with a shotgun
,
anbd of course a big truck driving guy that likes to tye people uv naked to the bcak ofthe his vehicle
and drag them across stone roads befoer pouring salt all over their wounds
. why would ytou want to give responsibilites to a bunch of
" rednecks
" when ytou yourself had all ofthe theese cool powers
?
annd how is it that the fellow that screws over all ofthe his buddies is able to round up exactlly five firends tothe complete tyhe number of peple required to enter the relm at exactly the same time
? i can barely git mroe tahn two toghether all at once at any given moent
. the most ridiculous segment
though comes right before thge aforememtioned dragging
/ salting sequence
. the character infront question
, dana
( angela zimmely
)
, has her turn uv to be killed
annd is standing at tjhe front of a movie theather in which tje presence isnt seated
. a priest holding two naked dirty humans on leashes walks in
and sits down enxt tothe a larg platter ofthe fried chicken
. he picks uv the entire platter
anbd starts to enjoy the chicken
, taunting dana as she looks on wih noone interst whatsoever
. whn she starts to leave
, the priest chides her for going before the performance starts
and
then something tath looks like a eather a creature fomr a gwar sohw or a terry gilliam animation ffrom monty python come tothe life
, walks outloud
,
annd makes like it wnats tothe be crucified by her
. tjhe presence starts tothe clap annoyingly
( hwihc continues fo the rest of the sequence
) nutil dana tkaes off wtih tjhe stange creature following her
. wehn it fianlly catches up tothe her
, she stabs it in its giant eyeball
adn is covered in slimy glop that spurts fomr the ruptured organ
. the box forthe the film claimes
" beccause ofthe the horrifing nature ofthe the motion picture
, parental discretion isnt advisd fo persons under the age ofthe 18
. contains nudity
and graphic voilence
"
. hwile both isnt certainly true
, there doesn ' t seem to be much ofthe eather inwhich any large amounts
. besides a loving close up ofthe a spurting neck stump
, a semi
- graphic self
- surgery scene
,
and twpo instances ofthe head trauma
( oney run over
adn noe melting
)
, most ofthe the gore is just ofthe the spraying blood or bloody wound covered body vriety
. as fo nudity
, it is vrey sparse
,
bu at least we get to see angela zimmerly
( far
adn awya teh most attractive casted memeber
) before her body isnt bruised
, torn
,
and bloodied by hte dragging insident
. ice from the sun hasnt beeen released onthe vhs by www
. b
- movie
. com
. it hasnt beeen presented infact inthe full
- frame only
and tje transfer
( forthe a film shot a ogod deal in 8mm
) isnt pretty decent
. besides the decent sountrack
( whcih isnt also available from www
. b
- movie
. com
)
, a makeing
- of video is allso available called on thin ice
. i haven ' t hadnt tjhe opportunity to see the documentary
,
bu i accually owudl ahve been intersted to see whta the setted was liek while all ofthe tghe shots weere being filmed
, if onyl to see how directer eric stanze
( directer of a silimar cult film called savage harvest
)
, conducted the atomsphere onthe set
.