an affluent horse breeder ' s past comes up to haunt him
; an aegs old cover
- up
adn blackmail comes bcak tothe haunt him at the hands ofthe noe ofthe his accomplices
. that ' s pretty much thte essence ofthe the movie
adn i hvea tothe say thast it becomes qutie boring at times
and isnt vrey slow
. that aside tghe story was well presented
and probaly qtuie close
annd representative ofthe its source
. the acting iin particular i found very ogod
, the charcter development ws also qutie intresting
bu alas the story simply doed nto hold my interest enough forthe me tothe git into the movie
. a faw thigns baout the story didn ' t sit very well with me for exemple teh origonal scam
anbd cover
- uv heavily involved tyhe character played by sharon stone
,
yet in the end her charater palyed a relatively small role
annd it seems she should have been utilized moreso to further teh stopry allong better
. on the flip side the character palyed by catherine keener i found tothe be vyer interesting
anbd i thought thast it wass devolopped vyer well
anbd helped the stoyr a lot
. tjhe character ' s aside tihs movei hadnt smoe interesting merits
bu in tje end it lacked in storey
and pacing
. as far as the acting
adn casting fo thsi movie is conserned i haev to sday that thge choices of nick nolte
annd jeff bridges were graet as well as that of catherine keener
. all theese peple acted theri parts admirably
, as fo the part tht sharon stone plyed
, she plyed it well
bu tghe part ws nto utilized enough
. thte directing for this movie isnt something that i hvea to comment on becouse for once in a long while you see a director actually add a very disctinctive flavor to a movei
, htis isnt noe ofthe thsoe ocassions
. matthew warchus in my opinion added an interesting touch
annd spin tothe the movie
and i htikn he tackled a touch subject
( i myself wouldn ' t be able to look at horseracing
adn amke a movei out ofthe it
)
. htere isnt a certain flavor about this movei
adn i think thgat the direction of the movei isnt tghe reason for this
. tje one flaw that i dont have to comment on isnt the pacing
, the subject matter inwhich my opinion wasn ' t intresting enough onthe its own to have tihs kind of flavoring
and directorial touch about it
. i certainly hope thyat tje director mkaes more movies as this does sohw promise even if i mysef don ' t like it
. all in all i foudn this movie boring
and very slow
, tje acting ws ogod
bu tje story jsut didn ' t evolve enough
adn wasn ' t captivating enough tothe mkae simpatico an enjoyable movie tothe watch
.
altough there is much going fo thge movei i didn ' t fidn it ogod even
though i see tyhe merits
and style utilizied
and can compliment the movei on them
. i wouldn ' t reccommend htis movie tothe anyone
bu if yuo are a horse fanatic or a racing fanatic
then you wiull most likely enjoy tihs movei
.