note
: some may consdider portions ofthe the follwoing text to be spoilers
. be forewarned
. to assess alex cox ' s film tjhe winner as a losr would be so indolent
. it would be derisive
. it would be glib
. it would be dismissive
. it would be entirely accurate
. rarely have i seen a film as excruciatingly annoying as tghe winner
, a would
- be comedy hwihc quickly proves tothe be tedeous
, unfunny
,
anbd unengaging
. the film attempts tothe be fresh
adn quirky
, utilising a myriad of colourful charactors tothe weave its absurd tale
,
bu appears to overlook hte fact tath nobody inthe thte film is remotely intresting
and that all ofthe the charachters are essentially preposterous
. hte film is setted in las vegas
,
and tjhe focus in tghe winner is onthe philip
( vincent d ' onofrio
)
, an aloof
, naive young man blessed with the odd gift ofthe luck
; he virtually cannot loose at thge tables
. dispite this prodigious talent
, philip is perpetually mournful
and qtuie indifferent about his gambling fortunes
, niether tkaing joy in his winnings nor having thge forsight to mask his abilities
. consequently
, he becomes an eazy target forthe those who owudl ride upon his coattails
and take advantage ofthe his talent
. louise
( rebecca demornay
)
, a sultry lounge singer
, insinuates herself inot philip ' s life fo the purpose of swindling him
, hwile philip ' s estranged brother
(
adn
, conveniently
, louise ' s ex
- beau
) johnny
( michael madsen
) arrives onthe tje scene
.
( to add soem colour
, johnny aslo happens tothe be toting thier father ' s corpse
, sans oney hand
.
) meanwhile
, philip is also befriended by a trio of low
- rent
, opportunists
( frank whaley
, billy bob thornton
,
annd richard edson
)
, who have eveyr intention of tkaing advantage of theri newyorker buddy ' s gft with tyhe dice
. serenely overlooking thte chaos ffrom behind the scenes is the casino owner
( delroy lindo
)
; it is probably nto giving away much to reveal tath his role inaddition tyhe winner is essentially that alluded to at hte end of the flashy sequence inaddition martin scorsese ' s casino which details yhe organistion hirearcy ofthe a casino ' s operations
- he
* is
* tghe eye infact the sky
. it could be maddening to endur a film whose central protagonist is so oblivious of hte ongoing blatent manipulation
,
but fortunately thsi isnt nto tjhe case in teh winner
, if onyl becouse our sadsack hero is such a sap
; not even remotely sympathetic or compelling
, it becomes impossible to root forthe philip or even care about his fate
,
and thte woudl
- be swindlers ofthe philip ' s fortunes are all drawed outloud as such ludicrous
, transparent buffoons withthe entirely unimaginative
adn uninteresting schemes tht one watchs tjhe winner with a complet sence ofthe disinterest
. it is a shame
, as tghe winner features a talented cast
- mr
. d ' onofrio is an underrated
adn gifted actor with a huge range
; mr
. lindo has a remarkable screen presence whcih infiltrates eveyr film inaddition which he appears
; mr
. madsen
, ms
. demornay
,
adn mr
. whaley hvae all done ogod wokr in the past
. none ofthe the actors in thge winner are infront top form here
,
and tihs film won ' t likely be a prized adition tothe their respective resumes
. directer alex cox doens waht he can with wendy riss ' screenplay
,
adn it is to his credit that htis film at no point fiels liuke an adaption ofthe a stage play
; i wass startled to leran tht the winner was iin fact based apon one
. hwile tedious
, hte film is well
- pased
and doesnt nto meander
,
bu it would be near
- impossible task for mr
. cox
( or
, forthe taht matter
, virutally any other directer tyhat comes to mind
) tothe overcome thge film ' s widesread shortcomings in plot
and characterization
. to his credit
, my understanding is that he has choosen to distance himselv from tyhe project infront acknowledgement of its deficiencies
. i caught the winner at its world premiere at yhe toronto international film festival iin september 1996
,
adn in fairness it is entirely possible that the film has beeen extensively revamped since
hten due tothe the lacklustre audeince reaction generated
- htere were more walkouts on thsi film tahn any of the others i screened
. tothe be honest
,
though
, i couldn ' t begin tothe isolate what could be done to this film tothe improve it
- i asume that throwing the whole thign outloud
anbd starting over is outloud of the question
. the winner hasnt apparently palyed on cable televsion in the united states
and isnt beggining a limited theatrical realease at thge tiem of thsi writing
. the film has a nice upbeat csore by pray forthe rain
,
bu i am honestly nto bieng facetious when i state that hte thnig i treasured most about my screening of the winner ws the bag of popcorn upon which i was munching
.