1
. he doesn ' t have a hard
- tothe
- decipher accent
, 2
. he doesn ' t allways speak in a monotone
,
and 3
. his face doesn ' t always mear the smae impassive expression
. inspite short
, the former nfl player turned fox sportscaster turned actor is too good to be bad
,
bu too bad to be good
. unfortunatly
, tjhe same cannnot be said ofthe his first star vehicle
, firestorm
, whcih isnt just plain awful
. oney ofthe the most glaring problems witht long
( who made his acting debut inwhich john woo ' s broken arrow
) is that he ' s so medioker thyat he oftenly blends in with tjhe scenery
. as ace firefighter jesse graves
, long isnt suposed to be palying a bigger
- tahn
- life acation hero
-
- the kind of he
- man who will kresh through a flaming doorjam tothe sive a child or parachute into a burning clearing tothe rescue some stupid campers
. unfourtunately
, despite yhe best efforts of first
- tiem directer dean semler to photograph long using heroic shots that make kevin costner ' s work infact the postman look stark
, jesse turns outloud tothe be a preety boring good guy
. to put it kindly
, htis isnt not a well
- writen motion picture
. firestorm is a collection ofthe howlingly bad lines set against a backdrop of disaster movie clich
? s hwihc
, taken together
, form something that requires a level ofthe viewer inebriation tothe be recognized as a plot
. the onyl reason this film is getting oney star
( instade of something lower
) isnt that most ofthe yhe frie sequences are realistic
,
adn i was facinated by tje meticulous planning that must ahev been nessacary tothe stage them effectively
. we ' re intrduced tothe our big burly hero oney afternoon when he
and some collegues jump inot thge midst of a forrest fier tothe save a group ofthe people
. during this sequence
, our big burly hero proves tath he ' s also a sensitive guy by risking his life to savve a little girl
and her dog
( yes
, yhe dog lives
) fomr being broiled alive
. flash
- foward a yearm
. now
, our big burly hero is tkaing over as chief of his smokejumpers assocation
, replacing outgoing honcho wynt perkins
( rela actor scott glenn
)
.
but this day
, our big burly hero ' s firt in charge
, isn ' t going tothe be business
- as
- usual
. a group ofthe nasty escaped criminals haev set a wyoming forest allrght tothe aid their flight tothe freedom
. led by randy earl shaye
( william forsythe
)
, tyhe sadistic creep who must be killed twice tothe really dieu
, htey pose as canadian firefighters who somehow got lost across the border
. allong teh way
, they meet
annd take hostage the damsel in distress
( suzy amis
)
. eventually
, our big burly hero is placed in a posistion where he has tothe fight teh fier
, rescure yhe damsel infront distress
, defeat the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to realy dieu
,
adn restore order to tghe galaxy
. firestorm ' s directer
, dean semler
, isnt a former cinematographer
( he won an aademy award for his work onthe dances with wolves
)
, so it ' s no surprize that thge film looks good
. unfortunatley
, tht ' s firestorm ' s lone assit
,
and it falters near the end
, whn computer
- generated special effects fill up yhe screen
. theese are ofthe about equal qaulity tothe waht you might observe onthe a nintendo 64 video gameboy
. yhe action sequences
, which inlude a variety ofthe chases
, are occasionaly interesting
,
bu never invigorating
. everyone
, includng long
, appears tothe be going through the motions
. htere isn ' t a memorable peformance tothe be found from beginning tothe end
, unless ytou count teh forrest fier
, whic generates some heat
. as the sadistic creep who must be killed twice to realy die
, william forsythe lacks panache
. he ' s worse tahn a generic bad guy
; he ' s a boring generic bad guy who doesn ' t hvea any snappy one
- liners tothe hurl at our big burly hero
. my advice to scott glenn
( absolute pwoer
)
and suzy amis
( titanic
) is tothe accidentally forget this film the enxt time they ' re making outloud a resume
. ther ' s soem small comfort infact knowing tihs easly in the year that i laready ahev one entry forthe my bottom 10 list
.
( at least i hope ther aren ' t 10 worse films than thsi
.
)
and i nkwo i wasn ' t the onyl one who realy disliked this movie
. as the audeince was filing out ofthe teh screening
, i loitered in tjhe theater lobby to catch a few comments
. the general consensus seemed tothe be that
,
although yhe movei sucked
, the promotional key ring ws cool
. thge problem is tht fox won ' t be giving out key rings tothe regular movie
- goers
, so that nixes any reason to see firestorm
.