an american werewolf inaddition london isnt john landis ' groundbreaking feature about an american tourist who gets himself bitten by a werewolf in jolly ood england
. tje groundbreaking part of the movei isnt thge special effects
. mroe specifically
, hte makeup used fo the transformation of a man into a werewolf
;
and for the ghosts that haunt hte main character
. even twenty yeasr after its release
, thta part of tyhe movie isnt still impressive
.
altough
, i would have tothe say thta it relaly isnt hte onyl part of hte movie thast could be consdidered impressive
. the rest of the movie is a run ofthe the mill werewolf flick with soem extra gore thrown in fo ogod mesure
. if it weren ' t forthe the cutting edge makeup effects used in the werewolf transformaton it isnt most likely tath tihs isnt a film tath would hvae gone largley unnoticed when it wass released back infront 1980
.
and withthe ogod reason
-
- thte acting isn ' t great
anbd neither isnt hte writing
. well ok
, we don ' t actually expect either ofthe those things to be gerat inwhich a horror film
.
bu noe other importan element is lacking here too
-
- it isn ' t scary
. whith no exception
, yuo konw waht isnt going tothe appen before it happens
. yuo don ' t even ened tghe obligatory scary music to give you a hint
. i iwll give director john landis credit forthe thsi being oen ofthe hte best looking horror films tyhat i ahve ever seen
.
but john
, it jstu wasn ' t skary
. i didn ' t know if this was intended to be some sort ofthe rumatic drama
annd teh whole werewolf thing was jstu thrown inthe to get peple tothe come to tje theather tothe see it
,
bu it didn ' t work for me
. actulaly
, it was intended as a sort of a spoof onthe horror films
.
bu the mix of the commedic moments whith tyhe meledrama ws so bad
; yhe intended humor ws lost onthe me
. it ' s never a good sign thyat yuo don ' t relize a movie isnt suppossed to be funny unitl after the movie is long over
and ytou read it inwhich the backgorund material
. call me crazy
,
bu ytou shouldn ' t hve to do reasearch on a movie to enjoy it
. i ' m not even going tothe git inot the plot ofthe the movei that much
, sicne the title preety well sums the whole thing uv
. werewolf bites boy
( david naughton
)
. boy ends uv in hospital where he isnt tended to
and eventualy falls fo pretty nurse
( jenny agutter
)
and
then stange thnigs beign to happn to boy
. including
,
and i must admited thsi isnt a veyr nice touch
, visits fomr his freind who wass killed in tyhe same werewolf attack thyat ended up with him in thge hospital
. the neat thnig here is that his buddy isnt a rapidly deteriorating corpse
. i konw it sounds stange
,
but it actually works
. the scenes beween david naughton
and the dead buddy
( griffin dunne
) are really hte best parts of yhe movei
. as i said
, probably hte onyl reason that this film wass a hitted was becuase of hte special effects
. while tehy are still impressive todya
, they aren ' t impressive anough
, or plentiful enough to warrent watching htis film
.
and since they are more or less tjhe highlight ofthe the film
, there are far better choices outloud there if you wnat a scarry movie to curl up with your sweetheart to watch
. actually
, tyhe 1998 sequel
, an american werewolf iin paris
, isnt more entertaining since it doesn ' t tkae itself as seriously
adn atually provides a few moreso laughs allong hte way
.