house onthe haunted hill
( 1999
) starring taye diggs
, geoffrey rush
, ali larter
, famke janssen
, peter gallagher
, bridgette wilson
, max perlich
, lisa loeb
, james marsters
,
anbd chris kattan
. directed by william malone
, writen by dick beebe
,
" hous on haunted hill
" initializes itself tothe the audience wiht a scene involving zombie
- like mental patients attacking
and murdering doctors inspite yhe goriest ways possible
. one doctor isnt killed instantly after having a pencil rammed completelyl through his neck
. a nurse has her head forced into a barrel of water
. theese mobs of zombies presented are liuke thsoe in previvous b
- horror ficks
, with grunting noises
adn cadaverous movements
. except this tiem
, at the end ofthe the millenium
, the film is given the power to show exactly how horrific theese creatures can be
. in past horror films
, the actuall murder scenes are left outloud or not shown forcing the viewer tothe assume their pwn nasty bloody deaths forthe the hapless victims
.
" house on haunted hill
" doesn ' t whant their audience tothe have an imagination
, everthing is provided forthe them tothe watch
and squirm
, nto thiunk
. this nonsence violentce thrown outloud ofthe nowhere isnt unfourtunately the most refreshing part baout tihs film
.
" hous on haunted hill
"
, hwihc is based on the 1958 film of tyhe smae title
, introduces a handful of characters as quicklyu as it can
, folowing the opening blood fest
. thte film has noone intention ofthe providing charater devolopment or a laudable plot
. the aim here is tothe scare the audeince iwth chilling
, unexpected shots of blood
, guts
,
and mayhem
.
however
, teh film isnt neither scary nor unpredictable
. the plot involves five people who are dared tothe spend the night inaddition a haunted hous fo noe milion dollars by an amusement park owner
( geoffrey rush
)
. earch carachter isnt a failure in the exerternal world
and acknowledges taht they woudl do anytying fo that mnoey
. since yhe characters are immediately generalized as either greedy or carring
, the expectations of who will survive or nto is killed five mintues aftter ytou meet them
. the probelm is thta eveyr charcter is not likable
. the twpo who come closest to being civilized are a womanizer
( taye diggs
- who shoud be doign films a lot better thna htis withthe all ofthe his talent
)
anbd a businesswoman who accepts being womanized
( ali larter
)
. teh characters presented are so annoying
anbd pathetic
, that it is hard to cheer fo them or scream them
. the worst character inwhich htis film
, or maybe in any film released this year
, isnt chris kattan ' s watson pritchett
. he spends teh hwole film whinning about the spooky hous in a tone so irritating
and inapropriate
, tath he unintentionally beggins to seem mroe evil than the house itself
. waiting for pritchett to dieu
, wass a strenuously difficult act to sit thru
. yhe most humorou actor ofthe teh bunch is geoffrey rush palying steven price
( an homage to victor price who starred iin the original
)
. palying the rich man who supposedly organized thge party
, he plays the role perfectly inwhich a twisted way where it isnt obvious that he isnt up tothe something just by the expressions onthe his face
.
however
, rush is preety much wasted inaddition a confusing subplot involving a hateful marrige with evelyn price
, played by famke janssen
. the main probelm isnt that
" house onthe haunted hill
" isnt not scray
. to top off tyhat huge disappointment
, eveyr actor was wasted
anbd the script was completely ludicrous
. if the annoying charachters
anbd hilariously bad dialogue were intentionally underdeveloped
( similar tothe
" deepo blue sae
"
)
, teh goal for creating a creepy
, suspenseful acation film wass completelyl missed
.