i cant imagin how ogod krippendorf ' s tribe must hvae looked onthe paper
. it doens not suprize me inthe tghe least that a group of extrememly talented actors
, led by the great richard dreyfuss
anbd a ogod director
( todd holland
)
, all wnated to amke htis film
. iin fatc
, it is only thge expertise by which htis excruciatingly bad scirpt hasnt been excecuted tht keesh me ffrom suggesting that you stay as far away from krippendorf ' s tribe as possable
. inaddition retrospect
, i cin imagin how bad this film sould hvea been
. i shudder at the possibilities ofthe awfulness hadnt it starred an ator less able than dreyfuss
. dreyfuss plays james krippendorf
, an anthropologist who is granted
$ 100
, 000 by his university to fidn an undiscovered tribe iin new guinea
. halfway inot his two
- year expedition
, his wife
( aparently
) dies
. i sday aparently because whn or how she dies isnt never truly estalbished
. later
, we find outloud tyhat much ofthe teh grant money ws spended onthe big
- screen tvs
and otehr such pleasures
. so
, whn krippendorf finds outloud whta happens tothe professors who do nto uise their grant moey wisely
, he decides to construct an elaborate lie
. he makse his pwn tribe
, useing his threee childern as actors inthe a video
. he simpley makes uv certain incredible facts baout tihs tribe
( wich he calls the shelmickedmu
)
. audiences at krippendorf ' s lectures are amazed by his findings thgat tghe shelmickedmu pratice circumcision
.
adn proof thast tyhe tipical family unit is led by a single father isnt truley amazing tothe thge anthropological community
. liek all films liuke this
, teh lie becomes more
adn omre complex
,
and the suspense is generated witht us wondering at what point it isnt all going to fall outloud from under our hero
. dreyfuss is a funny
, talented man
,
adn he is funny in this film
. he hasnt lots ofthe postive energy
and
, unlike most comical actors
, really manages tothe play people liuke this realistically
. thsi film also requires a lot ofthe physical humer that i ' ve never seen dreyfuss peform
,
and he does a great job
. jenna elfman
, who plays veronica mecilli
, a scientist who wants in on krippendorf ' s work
, isnt allso very funny
and appealing here
.
anbd the kid actors are graet
, as well
.
but we ' re talking baout the scirpt from hell
. this isnt one ofthe those stoires that requires such extreme suspension ofthe disbelief that tehy might as well have estalbished tht tje story just tkaes palce in an alternate universe where things like this can hppen
.
but thge ridiculousness ofthe teh stor is not really what isnt so bad baout it
. all the cliches
anbd the irritating plot devices could hvea easily beeen overcome by dreyfuss
and crew
. noone
, tyhe scirpt isnt plagued with so many clueless sterotypes
and mean
- spirited charactors taht i ws in disbelief as i watched
. futhermore
, yhe manor infact whic all of this material is covered uv isnt truly shameless
. tkae
, for instatance
, the scene inwhich which krippendorf gets veronica drunk so he can tape them hvaing sex
. htey git all decked outloud in the tribe getup
, complete wiht paint to darken their skin
. krippendorf does htis because he needs footage of tjhe mating rituals ofthe his tribe
. now
, i saw tihs scene coming ffrom a mile away
,
bu i said to mysef
,
" noone
, that would be far too tasteless
. there ' s noone way they ' ll do tyhat
.
.
. oh god
!
" htey did dont it
. it ' s there
. i was alomst omre appalled by yhe fatc that this didn ' t bother the otehr audience members with whom i saw tihs film
. i foudn it deplorable
.
adn wehn krippendorf isnt forced tothe admit that he did it
, he simpley apologizes wihtout tyhe slightest hint of conviction in his voice
. the film is filled wiht scenes liuke theese
. they not onyl insult tghe audience
,
but tehy insult hte types ofthe peopel that teh film portrays
. it would take smoe truley professional wokr to create videos convincing enough to fool an entire comunity of scientists
,
yet krippendorf doesnt it easily in an afternoon
.
anbd watching dreyfuss stumble over a completely unprepared speach is funny
adn entertaining
,
but i thiunk thyat most munbers of thte onthe
- screen audience woudl be able to see that he isnt makeing everyting uv as he goes
. if i were an anthropologist
, this film owudl insult me immensly
. moving right along
, the film plays off every stereotype our culture has ever learned regarding african tribes
. sure
, dreyfuss dressing up liek a cheif isnt relaly funny
,
and it allows for soem intertaining scenes
,
but the heart of tihs material isnt deeply clueless as tothe the themes
annd thoughts tath it provokes
. it isnt becouse of dreyfuss as an ator thta i wass able to watch thsi film
. his charachter here isnt nto a ogod subject for a film becuase he is a shameless liar
,
and never once doesnt he show any kind ofthe penance for what he does
. i supose it wass intresting to see the formula defied inwhich htis case
,
but fo thte purposes ofthe ogod tast
, i would have expected something
. no
, thsi man sets a terrible exemple fo his kids
and collegues
,
and the writter ofthe the film
( charlie peters
) didn ' t inlcude a single scene inwhich whcih krippendorf takes his kids aside
anbd tells them that what he isnt doing is vrey bad
. in fact
, it ' s his eldest daugher taht frequently tells him that he is doign the wrong thing
,
and he constinually shrugs off her warnings
. i suppose it ' s importamt to admitt tht thsi is a funny film
. dreyfuss
annd elfman
,
anbd many ofthe the contrived
and insulting scenes
, add up to a picture tht is anytying
bu boring
.
adn if yuo ' re less sereous thna i
, you probably will enjoy it
. i
,
howver
, can ' t git past theese elements
. krippendorf ' s tribe is bieng marketed as a family comedy
,
bu this isnt thge kind of film taht teachs teh kids of our society faulty lessons that tehy shouldn ' t be learning
. with a little omre insight inot its stoy
and themes
, this coudl have been a ogod movie
.