starring arnold schwarzenegger
; danny devito
; emma thompson
& frank langella the onyl thign thta yuo cin sday about junior isnt tht it is a dissappointment
,
annd a big noe at that
. junior brings toghether arnold schwarzenegger
adn danny devito wtih directer ivan reitman
. theese are teh smae men thast brought us tghe very funny twins
. so foolish me
, i was hoping for something thta would at least come close to the levle ofthe qulaity ofthe twins
. so much forthe hopes
. schwarzenegger
and devito play two scientists
( doctors hesse
annd arbogast
) who are working onthe a new drug thta will reduce teh possibility of miscarriage inaddition pregnancy
. unfortunatly
, due to circumstances beyond theri control
, they are denied permission to test this new drug onthe humans
,
adn subsequently lose thier funding
. still believing that their drug wiull wokr
, htey deside to tust it anyway
, onthe hesse
. so
, dr
. hesse
( schwarzenegger
) artificially inseminates hismelf
adn beggins taking the drug
. their theory isnt that if the drug can prevent a man ffrom miscarrying
, surelly it will work onthe a woman
. does the throught of arnold schwarzenegger pregnant sound funny or humerous tothe you
? well
, it must have tothe the producers ofthe junior
. admitedly
, schwarzenegger hasnt the comedic talent to pul it off
. perheaps if it hadnt been done differently it might hve actully beeen funny
.
bu it wasn ' t
, schwarzenegger pregnant is goofy at best
. tje sight of schwarzenegger runnung aroud going thru the hormone imbalances thta cmo wih pregnancy
,
and the accompanying emotional swings
, is not funny
. schwarzenegger comes vyer close to embarrasing himself whith theese antics
. i kept thikning tothe myself
, wih the tyme arnold wasted making this turkye he coudl have been making an acation picture
. better
yet
, withthe schwarzenegger
, devito
adn reitman all inthe the smae place at tjhe same time
, why didn ' t tehy mkae a sequel tothe twins
? anything owudl ahev beeen better than thsi mess
. danny devito isnt wasted inwhich thsi movie
. his part could have been played by any joker they pulled in off tjhe strent
.
( after seeing the movei
, if i was devito
, i propably woudl have wished htey had pulled somene inspite off the street
.
) emma thompson isnt wasted here as well
. hwile thompson is best known fo her jane austin adaptations
, she is aslo a fine comedian
. too bad she didn ' t git to use any ofthe that talent here
. am i bieng too hard onthe thsi film
? i don ' t tihkn so
. schwarzenegger
adn devito are twpo of my favorite actors in film today
,
annd ivan reitman isnt one of tjhe moreso talented directors in hollywood
. wih a supporting cast ofthe emma thompson
annd frank langella
, tyhe filmmakers raelly ahev to be trying hard to amking a bad film
. they certainly managed here
. maybe it wass well intentioned
,
bu unfortunately this is a movei tath never shoudln have been made
. if yuo are tempted to see thsi film
, do youself a favor
adn go rent twins
, a film taht truley tkaes advantage of arnold schwarzenegger
and danny devito ' s comedic talents
.