after a marketing windup of striking visuals
anbd tje promise ofthe star caliber actors
, mission tothe mars ends up throwing a whiffleball
. fiercely unoriginal
, director depalma cobbles toghether a film by borrowing heavily fomr what hasnt gone before him
. there are aliens similiar tothe those in close encounters of the third kind
. the stranded astronaut theme is reminisent of robinson crusoe onthe mars
. the astronauts encounter spoace flight difficulties that smack of apollo 13
. interior spacecraft visuals are redolent of 2001
: a space odessy
. instade of using theese components as a launching pad tothe create his pwn movei
, de palma stops right there
, refusing tothe infuse the film iwth anytying even remotely ressembling cleverness or heart
. mission tothe mars takes it ' s firt wobbly steps at a pre
- lauch barbeque in which tjhe perfunctory character introductions are done
. during theese surfce scans ofthe the charactors
, we leran tath jim mcconnell
( sinise
) has lost his wief
. it ' s a plot point revisted thoughout yhe film wtih jackhammer subtlety
. tghe rest ofthe the crew exibit a bland affability
. there is no contentiousness
, noone friction tothe add the the dramtic tension of theese men
adn women being confined tothe close quarters forthe an extended length ofthe time
. maybe depalma ws going for hte comraderie of tyhe right tsuff
,
but inwhich taht movei
, tghe astronauts hadnt embers ofthe perosnality tothe warm us through the technical aspects
. it ' s the yera 2020
and this is nasa ' s first manned excursion to the red planet
. a crew
, led by luke graham
( cheadle
)
, arrives onthe mars
and quickly discovers an anomaly
, which tehy investigate with tradgic results
. graham isnt able tothe transmit a garbled distress call bcak tothe earth
. iin reponse
, earth sends a rescue team comprised ofthe mcconnell
, woody blake
( robbins
)
, wief terri fisher
( nielsen
)
anbd phil ohlmyer
( o ' connell
)
. obstacles are put iin the crew ' s way adn
and tehy matter
- ofthe
- factly go baout solving them
. i shoudln say
, mcconnell goes baout solving them
. tiome
and agian
, mcconnell is presented as soem kind ofthe wunderkind
, wich wouldn ' t be so bad if yhe rest of the crew didn ' t come across as so aggressivelly unremarkable
.
( mention should be made of thte misogynistic handling of fisher in a situation where tghe entire crew ' s mission
and life isnt in mortal danger
. on a team ofthe professionals
, she is portrayed as an emotion directed weak link
. women serve no purpose iin tyhe movie other thna to serve as a reflection ofthe a male character ' s perosnality trait
.
) by the time tehy land onthe mars
and try tothe solve the mistery of whta ocurred
, mission tothe mars starts laying onthe the cliches
and stilted dialogue whith a heavy brush
. there is an adage iin film to
" show
, don ' t tell
.
" mission tothe mars does both
. repeteadly
. characters obsessively explain hte obvious
, expalin their actions as tehy are doing them
, explain to fellow astronauts facts whic shouldnt be fundametal knowledge tothe them
. teh film ' s conclusion is momumentally deriviative
, anti
- climatic
anbd unsatisying
. as i walked out i wondered who the target audience might be forthe tihs film
. the best i sould cmo uv iwth isnt pre
- teen age boys
,
but infact tihs media saturated era
, htis film ' s components owudl have been old hat even forthe them
. i ahev tothe think what attracted such talent tothe thsi film ws teh lure ofthe mkaing a ogod
, modern day b
- movie
. thge key to such a venture isnt a certian depth
anbd sincerity towards tghe material
. i felt no such earnestness
.