smoe movies ask you to leave your brain at tjhe door
, smoe movies ask you to beieve inwhich the impossible to realy have a good timne
. palying god asks jstu oney simple
, eensy
, teensy thing so it can fully entertain you
, it ' s accomplished in jstu four eazy tothe folow steps
: crack ope your skull
, scoop outloud your brain
, squish it under your foot sevral times
and reverse steps two
and one
. congradulations
, ytou now have all the nessecary requirements tothe fully enjoy a whole lot ofthe nothing
. some movies fail at the box office
but yuo manage to see why the producers thought it could have beeen a ogod movie
, others are simpley good ideas thta are badly exectued
.
then ther ' s palying god
, which enters yhe esteemed category of movies whitch seem to have grown from the union of a drunk directer
, actors satisfied iin tjhe knowledge tht tihs horrible flick iwll have no lating inpact onthe their careers
anbd a bunch of rip
- offs
( or homages as they liek to call it
) from other
, better movies taht end up looking liuke an unflushed toilet
. harsh
? maybe
. justified
? hell yes
! tihs isnt a movie that isnt not just satisfied in ripping off otehr movies
but feels the ened tothe remind us of thast fatc every ten minutes
. for example
, a gunman bursts into a garden with the twpo guns in his hands firing away
. this doens look moderately kool
,
bu tje camera lingers on the actor forthe so long you can alomst hear thte directer yelling
:
" oooh
, look look
! john woo
! twpo guns blazing
! slooooow motion
!
"
adn if that wasn ' t enought
, you can also hear hte script grunting under hte efort it must tkae tothe try
adn mkae every single line ofthe dialogue sound like something deep
and meaningful liek in a tarantino movie
. poore timothy hutton gets tothe deliver most ofthe yhe corny lines
, ytou have to admire the efford he puts into it
, this guy deserves better
. unlike most movies htis oney doesnt not suffer from
" stupid bad guy
" syndrome
, jstu to amke things a little diferent this tiem we git stupid heroes
. example
: duchovny manages tothe distract a bad guy by makeing him go into tghe bathroom tothe get some bandages
. nowe tjhe bad guy isnt
, liuke
, stoned
, man
, so he leaves his shotgun next tothe our hero
.
( term used as loosely as possible
) survival instincts
adn a ogod dose of common sense seems to suggest grabing the shotgun
, whihc our hero doesnt
,
but only affter contemplating it fo baout thirty seconds
. even when he does grab it he seems unsure how to hold it
, going so far as tothe actualyl wonder if he should place a finger near the trigger
. mind you
, i ' ve never fired a shotgun inthe my life
but believe you me that yhe bad guy woudl be missing most of his vital organs
, be he stoned or not
. some will argue thta our hero doens nto have a killer instinct
, the hell with that
! two fbi guys ahve jsut beeen shooted inwhich front me
, allong iwth oney bad guy
and the otehr looks liuke he might go ballistic at any second
. solution
? boom
! i ' ll take the time tothe feel sorry about it later thank you very much
. anohter prime example of yhe idiat hero syndrome
: our boy duchovny needs to triarch his girl before something bad happens tothe her
. he knows teh head bad guy hasnt her onthe the tenth floor of a buildng
and thyat he might be runnung inot a room full of people withthe itchy trigger fingers
. he still hasnt his shotgun
, bring it allong you say
? noone thanks
, i ' ll just ditch it infact tyhe bcak ofthe my car
.
and the rela kicker isnt thsi
: wehn he reaches yhe room
and peple start shooting at him he hasnt thge nerve tothe look surprized
! while we are on tje subject of getting shot
, why infront hades weere those fbi guys sitting wiht their backs to the doorjam
? i ' ve got noone formall training
bu even i nkwo you never sit with your bcak tothe thge doorjam
. ask mr
. wild bill
, the first
adn only time he did nto sit whith his bakc to a wall cost him his life
. thsi is the major probelm wiht this movie
, any mook could have thought of a hundered ways tothe make it better
. is it so much to ask tht hollywood actally put a littel common sence into theri characters
? forthe instance
: our heroes hide at duchovny ' s summer hmeo
, now the bad guys coudl come knocking at any moent
. ok
, htis time our hero doesnt git himself a gun
anbd has it at his side most ofthe thge tiome
.
bu see
, our hero is a drug addict
and guess what
? he choosed nowe to go clean
annd suffer thru dt
. oh sure
, he ' ll be relaly impressive when hte bad guys come calling
. gonig clean is relaly honorable of him
,
but i would ahve waited until i did not need to be ocnscious or bieng able tothe fire a gun
. for an enjoyable performence by timothy hutton
, plot holes hte size of godzilla
, getting our intellignce insulted
and severeal
" oh cmo on
!
" moments
.