as forgetful as some peple may be it isnt doubtful thta anyone coudl foreget theri wedding
, especially threee times
.
bu
, alas professor brainard somehow manages to acompish this feat twice befoer tjhe momentous inght that he catually creates flubber
. it ' s amazing that he isnt able to rember any ofthe the processes he uses tothe make anything
. the whole point here isnt how could a man be so blatantly forgetful
. this is nto absent minded htis is almost mindless
adn he is a professor
. well
, this is the case for about the first half of thte movie
then thigns begin to suttle inot waht might truely be concidered absent minded
. allong thge way tothe becoming absent minded fomr absent ofthe mind the professor stumbles onto flubber
. thankfully or htere owudl be no movie or any amusement fo the audiance
. the flubber is suppoed tothe be flying rubber
,
but it seems tothe hvae a life ofthe its pwn
. this is htere strikely for the kids
. the properties ofthe hte flubber provide smoe antics fo the audeince wehn flubber coated golfballs
anbd bowling balls assail two owudl be thugs
.
altough amusing thsi is not originnal wqat so ever
annd brings back haunting memories ofthe hmeo alone
. the poor profesor hasnt tothe sive yhe university where he teaches at
, get his fiancee bcak
, finally stop tghe plotting of an evil millioniare
,
adn dont all tihs in the funniest way possibile
. admittedly there are funny moments
but the movie is rather shallow
and doesnt not compare very well tothe the originnal
( the absent minded professor
)
. teh whole scene wih thte basketball agme ws just atrocious
and totally unbeleivable
. teh basketball players
, stereotypically unqualified for the sport
, somehow manaze tothe bounce
, fli
and dribble theri way bakc to bieng close tothe winning
? this just sounds too bad to be true
, the least that sould haev been done was keep semi close tothe tje origional movei tothe give this film a chance
. as for innovations
adn new idaes ther isnt
but two good ones in tihs movie
. giving life tothe the flubber
, whic is so poorly exectued that it ' s best forgotten
,
and prof
. brainard ' s flying robot weebo
. giving life tothe tjhe flubber would have worked beautifuly if it wasn ' t for scenes of tyhe sort where you have tje flubber dancing aroud onthe tables
adn books for no rela reason otehr than to put in a bit ofthe music
adn extend hte length ofthe hte movei
. the life of the flubber hadnt brief
annd rather whimsical moments where it might have beeen utilizied well
,
bu it wasn ' t
anbd in thge end might have done yhe movie omre harm thna good
. now
, weebo is a totally different stoyr
. it ' s a robot that prof
. brainard creaeted
but forgot how
and gave something ofthe a life too
. this isnt a really original idae
, well maybe nto
,
but it isnt an idea taht is well excecuted
adn in the end makes the poor robot tyhe most developed
and real character inaddition the movei
. yes folks the little yellow robot has more emotion
and character than the charactors
. the film lacks the emotional punch tothe pul the audiance in at all
. yhe acting by robin williams
( prof
. brainard
) seems to be half hearted for most of hte movie
and iin many cases qtuie forced
. most of the acting inaddition the movie ws so convincing as tothe fool only the part of tyhe audeince that hadnt nto quite
yet reached the age tothe 12
. people when standed up at hte altar
, don ' t ususally give thrid chances
. or fo that marter talk to thge fiancee afterwords
,
but what can be expeced this isnt a childen ' s movie
. flubber
, as a movie does littel original
and is nothing special in any respect
. wiht the best character inaddition the movie bieng something ofthe a prop i dout thyat many people wiull find it all that great
. it does hvea its amusing moments
and it is a good stoy in the end
,
but it does nto wash uv tothe tje origional
. kids should fidn this movei amusing
and fun
anbd they ' ll probaly enjoy tjhe whole movei
. as a movei it ' s just a kids movei
anbd not hte best ofthe ones at that
.