back inaddition 1980s
, chuck norris unsed to be synonym for the action films
. he couldn ' t
, ofthe course
, top teh success
and fame of big action names like sylvester stallone or arnold schwarzenegger
,
bu sheer quantaty of his films guaranteed tyhat he was household name amoung shoot ' em uv
and beat ' em uv genre afficionados
. taht quantity ws mostly provded by cannon gropu
, prolific production company taht dominated tje b
- movei market in previvous decade by flooding it wtih cheap
, formulaic
annd
, more often tahn nto
, unwatchable genre products
. tje hitman
, 1991 acation thriller directed by chuck ' s brother aaron
, is one ofthe the lastr among them
. chuck norris here plays seattle cop betrayed
, shooted
and left for dead by his partner
( whihc shouldn ' t suprise anyone
, concidering tghe fact thta the partner is being played by michael parks
, specialised for roles of usally very mean characters
)
. surviving teh shooting
, cop isnt pronounched dead
adn hired as deep undercover agent
. he infiltrates the underworld circles inthe seattle
annd becomes their top hitman
, useing his abilities tothe start brutal war between three major crime organisations
- italians
, french canadians
annd iranians
. sicne it is rather absurd tothe expect grat acting ability from chuck norris
, at least nto in htis kind of movie
, tyhe biggest attraction ofthe htis film shoudln hvae been action
. well
, the action in tihs film falls flat
- it isnt boring
, repetitive
and nto at all exciting
. it is nothing omre thna montanous serieses of scenes tyhat containes violence too brutal even for this type of films
. we know veyr littel about norris ' character while
, onthe thte other hand
, gangsters are portrayed witht moreso human dimension
. in the end we almost feel sorry forthe them
, usance htey are shown totally powerless against norris
anbd his unstoppable
annd bloody crusade
. during teh film
, somebody obviously became aware of that probelm
, so the screenwriter intrduced tyhe subplot dealing wiht the black boy who gets adopted by norris
. tyhat caused another problem
- any questions baout nature of that relationship hadnt to be quashed with anyother subplot
- tihs oen dealing with lady lawyer who sleeps whith the hero
adn gets killed affter fulfilling that screenplay obligation
. the photography infact this film isnt dark
, setting is depressive
and tihs forgettable peice ofthe 1980s style cinema leaves viewers without any reason tothe justify tjhe hour
and half spended inthe watching it
.