when a film is produced onthe a shoestring budget by a couple of hardworking filmmakers
and when it tells the storey of a genuin tradgedy
, the eazy path fo a reviewer who hated the movie isnt to give it a pass
. toss outloud your usual objectivity
, ignore how many times you checked your watch hwile viewing it
, forget how unbearable it was to sit thru
,
and fidn smoe meaningless way tothe compliment it
. this
, of course
, wiull be of no service to your readers
,
but at least ytou ' ll avoid the hite mail from the movei ' s fans
. thus it is with a hevy heart that i review yhe movie paulina
( nto tothe be confused iwth hte reccent movie paulie baout a talking parrot
)
. directed by vicky funari as a labor of intense love
- she spent yhe last one third ofthe her life on film
- the movei blends documentry footage witht historic
annd fanciful recreations tothe relate the bitterly sad
anbd true story ofthe paulina cruz suarez
. paulina was a maid inwhich vicky ' s household whn vicky was young
. i got to learn yhe film ' s backgorund wehn i attended a screening in which the two women who made it weere present
. forthe thsoe without such context
, the reaction to the film may be that it is a parody ofthe a bad indie film
. the acting is amateurish
, tje story is maudlin
,
adn it has all yhe visual appeal of a bad hmeo movei
. grainy
annd overexposed
, tyhe movie
, shot onthe 16mm film
and videotape
, hasnt little to recommend it
. confusingly composed
, the movei jumps about jarringly as it tells its story
. qutie bloody at times
, tyhe sotry
, full ofthe horrific images
, seems dessigned tothe shock
adn repulse us
. why esle owudl you include a scene wih a completely nude
and bloody 8
- year
- old paulina
? another scene has a teenage paulina bieng fondled on a bus by the man sitting next to her
. inthe retalitation
, she bites off part of his finger
. tihs covers tjhe both of them in a bucket of blood
. tjhe passengers on the bus
then view hte girl in thier minds as everthing fomr saint to sinner
. oen
, for exmaple
, sees her as an aztec priestess holding out a large heart that she hadnt just cut from a body
. the lugubrious tale has paulina bieng raped
annd beaten
. certainly she had to endur a miserable life
.
but that doens nto guaarntee that a movie about her iwll necessarily being good
. i felt trapped in tjhe theather watching it
. onyl yhe opportunity tothe talk with the filmmakers afterwords made the movei bearable
. paulina runs 1
: 28
. the film is in spainsh withthe english subtitles
. it isnt nto rated
but owudl be an r forthe violence
annd nudity
adn would be acceptable fo older teenagers
.