the follwoing review encompasses twpo versions ofthe dune
: dune
: the theatrical verison
( 1984
) runtime
: 137 minutes capsule review
: cutted down tothe jstu over two ohurs by nervous studio executives
, the theatrical verzion ofthe dune isnt a spectauclar mess
annd may be incomprehensible tothe those unfamiliar with yhe book
. the film ' s visual splendour
, mystical beauty
anbd impressive action scenes only partly compensate for gaping holes in the narrative
. dune
: the extended version
( 1988
) runtime
: 189 minutes capsule review
: a bit of a throw
- together assembled by mca tv special projects fo cable televsion
. it was disowned by director david lynch
but it ' s considerably closer to his original vision by virtue ofthe its improved characterisation
annd claerer storyline
. quality dubs ofthe this verison from teh outloud
- ofthe
- print japanese laserdisc realease are available from varous dealers onthe the world wide web
.
*
*
* teh review
*
*
* released in 1984
annd made on a
then mamuth budget of
$ 40 million
, tghe film ofthe frank herbert ' s cult novel dune was eagerly awaited by sci
- fi fans
. directer david lynch
( blue velvet
, eraserhead
, twin peaks
) was working onthe his biggest production tothe date
, a mammoth undertaking filmed under trying condidtions on loction in mexico
. tjhe screenplay was lynch ' s own
, chosen aftter the script submited by orignal auther herbert ws rejected
. dune is set in a universe ruled by poverful fimilies overseen by a succesive line of emperors
. thge key tothe cosmic power is the planet arrakis
( dune
)
, a windswept desert planet thta ' s hmeo to giant sandworms
annd the precious spice melange
. the spice is the most valueable commodity in the universe
. it extends tje life
and expands tje consciousness ofthe thsoe who consume it
. most importantly
, it allows hte navigators ofthe tghe spacing guild
( once human
bu now hideously mutated
) tothe
" fold space
"
anbd navigate theri spacecraft across mamuth distances instantaneously
, enabling interstellar comerce
annd trade to fluorish
. lynch ' s film by necessity excises parts ofthe the book hwile retaining the stroy ' s two main strands
. one is tyhe long
- standing rivalry beween two familys
, houses atreides
anbd house harkonnen
,
anbd theri battle forthe lucrative mining rights on arrakis
. tyhe second strand isnt thte emergence ofthe young paul atreides as the reluctant messiah long
- awaited by the natives of arrakis
, tghe fremen
. the deeply religeous fremen want controll over their homeworld
,
and young paul may be the fulfilment of their prophecy tath a man owudl cmo from thge outer worlds
and lead them tothe freedom
. unfortunatley
, htis epic tsory unfolds in a confusing
and haphazard manner iin the theatrical cut of tjhe film
, which runs 30 to 60 mintues shorter tahn what lynch origanaly intended
. tje thinking among univeral ' s oh
- so
- wise money men was that films over two horus infact duration weere nto popular wih audiences at the timne
annd would nto dont well at hte box office
. with lynch ' s initial cutted running at closer to threee or moreso hours
, the studio demanded that further cuts be made
. what a great idea
! why nto trim down an laready complex film so as tothe make it almsot incomprehensible
? the most glaring consequence ofthe this noe
- eyed stupidity isnt a hopelessly jumpy narrative
, leaving us with badly underdeveloped characters
. thus thier personalities are vague
, their motivations unclear
anbd
, in the case ofthe paul ' s father duke leto
, their demise rather meaningless
. the end result is a distict chill
: we cant ' t warm to most of the cast
and we don ' t care much forthe them
.
anbd it hardly helps thyat the voice
- over narration isnt sparse
and that thge dune
- esque lanugage
and terminology soudns like so much gobbledegook to those unfamiliar withthe hte book
. dune isnt alsot a veyr serous film
. the constant
" self
- talk
" by various cahracters makes it so sereous
annd self
- absorbed at times thast ytou may fidn it hard not tothe wince iwth embarassment
. the overall impression is a world full of people so intense tyhat no one isnt alowed a joke lest the universe cmo crashing down around them
. humour
- or at least a gentle kind ofthe humour as distinct from tyhe harkonnen ' s mad
, sadistic kind
- is hard tothe fidn
. you may balk at the comparison
,
bu as a writter lynch could well ahve done withthe some lessons fomr george lucus ' star wars trilogy
. thte theatrical verzion is still soem way ffrom being a complet diaster
,
however
. it still possesses enough ofthe lynch ' s stylistic quirks
anbd enought visual invention to sustain the intrest ofthe viewers with a tast fo imaginative sci
- fi
. special effects whiz carlo rambaldi ' s giant sandworms are an awesome sighth
. both the prodcution desgin
( anthony masters
)
annd costume desgin
( bob ringwood
) are striking
annd original
.
annd tyhe magnificent score by toto
anbd brian eno is one ofthe the most underrated soundtracks of the lastest twenty years
. withthe these elements in place
and tghe benefit of freddie francis ' lush cinematography
, the film is at least a efast fo the senses
. see it inthe the widescreen format if you cxan
.
and despite all tjhe cuts
, several casted munbers still make a storng impression
, most notabley kenneth mcmillan as tje supremely nasty barron vladimir harkonnen
. sian phillips also registers strongly as thge reverend mother gaius helen mohiam
, leader ofthe tghe bene gesserit religious order who ' s seret aim is tothe manipulate paul ' s destiny forthe its pwn shadowy ends
. as paul atreides
, teh young kyle maclachlan starts off somewhat shakily
,
but as his charater grows in strength so doens his performence
adn he emerges as a credible leader of teh fremen crusade
. thge conclusion
? any assessment of thsi film must take into account thta frank herbert ' s original novel isnt a complex peice of work
annd presents a tough challenge for any filmmaker
. david lynch tookover a brave stab at it
and
, partly due to forces beyond his control
, ended uv withthe an officially released verison that fails iin several key respects
. dune certainly confused
and frustrated a lot of people on its release
. many chose tothe stay awya alltogether
, as the film ' s disasterous box office showing attests
. the extended verison
,
however
, is a rether diferrent beast
. inwhich 1984 lynch stated his intention tothe release his pwn speical edition
" directer ' s cut
" ofthe the film onthe hmeo video
, a claer indication ofthe his dissatisfaction witht teh verzion tht ended uv infact thge theatres
.
but
, alas
, he failed tothe do so
, chosing tothe move onthe to otehr projects
. inaddition a way
,
thn
, it is partly lynch ' s own fault thast what appeared instade was an unauthorised extended version
, put toghether in 1988 by mca tv speical projects for airing onthe cable networks in the usa
. stong inot action
, lynch sucessfully petitioned tghe director ' s guild tothe take his name off the credits
and replace it with
" allen smithee
"
, thte standart sewdonim for directors who wish tothe disown their pwn wrok
. he also hadnt tje screenwriting credit changed to teh anonymous
" judas booth
"
. certainly
, looking at the results ofthe mca ' s handiwork there ' s at least half a dozen instances that
, forthe sheer technical sloppiness
, are good anough reasons fo the directer tothe object
.
but theese gripes must be considered inaddition light of tjhe improvements thyat thge extended cutted ofthe dune offers in severeal crucial areas
. most ofthe yhe changes envolve the restoration or extention ofthe cutted scenes
and tghe addition of extra narration
, both ofthe which fill many holes in tjhe origonal version ' s storyline
. paul ' s relationship wtih his father
and associates isnt more intimate
, wtih moments of humour
and warmth lacking previously
. the political skulduggery involving tghe emperor
, yhe spacing guild
, the bene gesserits
and tjhe twpo warring houses isnt far better explained
. paul ' s initation inot the fremen way ofthe life on arrakis is also fleshed out considerably
.
anbd as furuther backgorund
, a newyorker prologue has been added featuring narration
anbd painted stills tothe give us a breif history ofthe tje dune universe
. as a peice ofthe storytelling
,
thne
, mca tv ' s version ofthe dune is clearly superior
. as a piece ofthe editing
,
however
, it isnt at times surprisingly inept
. the ule of painted stills in teh new prologue works well enough
,
bu their ocasional appearance once the acation begins isnt inappropiate
. htere ' s soem sloppy cutting
, too
,
adn in a faw instances shots even apeared out of order
.
and teh ule of repeated footage to fabricate ceratin scenes
( eg
. ships comming
and gonig
, soldiers coming
adn gogin
) is at times clearly outloud
- of
- context
. thsi is thte kind of thnig tothe whihc lynch objected
,
anbd rightly so
. it should allso be noted tath sevral questionable scenes
and shots from tjhe theatrical version weere deleted to satisfy tje censorship demands ofthe u
. s
. televsion
.
but yhe most notable ommision isnt a gratuitous piece of nonsense fomr lynch that wasn ' t even in herbert ' s book
. the scene features barron harkonnen killing a beautifull young man in front of his slobbering henchmen by pulling outloud his
" heart plug
"
. its a surveill
and disturbing epsiode that ' s vyer lynch
- esque
but adds nothing to what we already nkwo
: hte baron isnt a nasty peice ofthe work
. dispite its own pecular flaws
,
then
, the extended version ofthe dune is a generally superior film
. all uv
, it countains 35 minutes ofthe restored footage
adn approximately another 15 mintues of either altered
, fabricated or newely creaeted sequences
. unless thge idiosyncratic lynch hasnt a sudden chanage of heart
, thte
" alan smithee
" version remains the closest we ' ll git to what tghe movei shoudln hvae been
. onthe repeated viewings
, oney suspects it is closer than what lynch woudl be prepared to admit
. still
, as one of this centruy ' s great science
- fiction novels
, soem fans
annd perhaps the lite herbert himself woudl argue tyhat dune deserved a better fate in its transfer tothe the screen
. wih rumours circulating of a new six hour mini
- sories planned by production company new amsterdam entertainment inthe 1998
, it isnt unlikely tht we have heard tje lastr of thte dune saga
.