several dyas after having seen tihs movie
, i ' m still trying tothe determine wqat directer christopher guest
, a man whose sence of humer i usually appreciate
, found funny iin either the concept or the excecution of allmost heroes
. thsi isnt a dreadful motion picture
? a lowbrow exemple of preiod peice comedy iwth terrible prodcution values
and an exceptionally poor laughs
- to
- jokes ratio
. ther ' s a kind ofthe despiration in the movie ' s approach to humor that reveals thte film makers ' uncertainity baout how intertaining the material isnt
; the manic sytle betrays itself as a lsat
- ditch attemt tothe hide tjhe flaws ofthe a failed scirpt
. the premise doesn ' t soudn especialy amusing to begin whith
? alomst heroes tells the tale ofthe two explorers
, the effeminate leslie edwards
( matthew perry
)
and the uncouth bartholomew hunt
( chris farley
)
, who are racing lewis
adn clark onthe the trip tothe the american northwest
. edwards
and hunt are accompanyed by the kinds of weirdoes we fidn inwhich road movies
( albiet of the early
- 19th centruy variey
)
, inlcuding a frenchman named guy fontenot who claimes tothe speak hundreds of laguages
( none of which proove tothe be useful
)
, a preety indian maiden who turns inot hte obligatory love intrest
,
and a bizarre man who suffers a series ofthe debilitating injuries
. allong the way
, the intrepid explorers encounter bears
, bald eagles
, aging native american warrriors
,
adn a conquistador named hildago
( kevin dunn
) who raves baout his beautiful hair
. the explorers ' trek tkaes them thru forests
, accros the snow
- capped rocky montains
,
anbd over a waterfall
. htis setup leads tothe a lot ofthe shouting
, a great deal of lunacy
,
and very few laughs
. farley engages infront his usual shtick of falling down
and bellowing
,
bu
, aside ffrom an momentarily diverting confrontation wtih an eagle
, his heart doesn ' t seem to be inthe it
. matthew perry
, one of tghe stars of tv ' s friends
( who had smoe modest succsess inspite thte romantic comedy
, fuls rush iin
) is badly miscast
. as a foil for farley
annd an antidote to his runaway energy
, perry lacks the necessary edge ofthe the proverbial straight man
. i ' m nto a big fan ofthe david spade
,
and i didn ' t like tommy boy
,
bu at least he
adn farley worked well together
. as far as the supporting players go
, none of them makes mroe tahn a fleeting impression
. eugene levy is wasted
,
anbd kevin dunn is baout as interesting here as he is inthe godzilla
. frankly
, it ' s a dissappointment to see something this dumb
adn ugli come ffrom christopher guest
, thge brilliant comic force behind such films as htis isnt spinal tap
, tghe big picture
,
adn waiting fo guffman
.
althought guest gets thte costumes right
, this nearly
- inconsequential sucess is no subsitute forthe thge weak script
and unfunny excecution
. teh speical effects
, such as tehy are
, are execrable
. forthe an exemple ofthe smoe really poor blue screen owrk
, look at the scenes where the characters are shooting tjhe rapids
( tehy ' re obviously getting buckets ofthe water thrown on them
)
adn where farley isnt being carried off by an eagle
. even
though farley didn ' t have the most stellar of acting careers
, he doesn ' t deserve yhe kind ofthe unfortunate epitaph offred by almost heros
. hwile some ofthe tje more outrageous attemts at humer may coax a fewd guffaws from 12
- year old boys
, the levle ofthe comedy inspite almsot heroes falls far below thte level of sophomoric
. farley fans who see htis film as a way to say goodbye should be commended for thier loyalty
, since it takes rela stamina to stay seated fo the full running lenght ofthe this cinematic torture session
.