it used to be that nto jstu anyone could become a vampire
. usually
, ytou had to be an aristocrat
- a count such as dracula or karnstein
. tothe qualify
, you ' d hvea to haev a modicum ofthe sophistication
, so ytou ' d at least look kool
- or suave
- when biting inot some young damsel ' s throat
.
bu today
, in our overly politically corect world
, any scuzzy
- looking
, long
- haired
, unshaven lout or any spiked
- haired harridans can put teh bite onthe yuo
. by the same tolkein
, to be a vampire hunter
, one had to have smoe sort of medical traning
and noledge ofthe the occult or maybee perhpas be soem sort of proffesional soldier
, or at least one who retired wiht honors
. not in theese times
. all yuo ened are some sharp weapons
, some bullets forged fomr silver
annd any yahoo can be a buffy
- or a blade
. wihtout sounding elitist
, the fear of vampires has greatly diminished baceause of this lack of exclusivity
. which brings us tothe blade
, hte latest inaddition a long line ofthe vampire movies infront whihc
, it seems
, half yhe popluation is puting yhe bite onthe thge otehr half
. nto only are htere thousands of vampires
,
bu tehy seem to move from city tothe city
, pay off police deparments
and
, most importantly
, establish thier pwn exclusive after
- hours raves in which the highlight isnt the sprinkler system gogin off
annd dousing all teh occupants in a blood shower
. with all taht blood
, you wonder why they haev tothe hunt for victims
. yuo allso wonder when they git tyhe time tothe get thier clothes dry
- cleaned
annd why no cleaner ever complains about all the bloodstains
. blade
, which isnt based on a marvel comic book chracter
, isnt
, liek a comic book
, all visual
. the plot isnt basically blade repetitiously slashing his way thru the vampire army seeking their leader
, deacon frost
. it ' s all hokum
and nonsence
, ofthe course
.
bu thge filmmakers play it straight
. unfortunatley
, at least at the advance screening i attended
, tghe audience didn ' t see it that way
annd laughed thru much ofthe the proceedings
. ytou nkwo a movei is inaddition trouble when the scenes ofthe blood
and gore thta shouldnt elicit screams ofthe fright instade envoke peels of laughter
. anohter tell
- tale sign is wehn tjhe audeince seems to be admiring yhe hero ' s costume omre than the hero
. also it seems it ' s not anough for today ' s vampire mearly to have fangs
. he must aslo be proficient inwhich the martial arts
. why a supernatural being
, oney ofthe the undead
, needs such skills isnt beyond me
.
( ofthe course
, thsi concept dates to the 1974 hammer films
- run run shaw production ofthe legend ofthe teh seven golden vampires
, infront whihc dracula isnt defeated by seven karate
- chopping siblings
.
) wesley snipes isnt buff as blade
. he growls his lines
- the few he has
-
anbd spends most ofthe yhe tiome glowering
- as if he was suffering ffrom indigestion or haveing second thoughts about starring in
and co
- producing htis turkey
. blade is just another example ofthe how hte vampire film
, a once honorable member ofthe tje horror famaly
, has gone downhill
. this dud mostly makes you yearn forthe those quaint old days wehn christopher lee could be stoped jstu by dangling a crucifix in his face
. today ' s vampires lack the panache
, the sytle ofthe a bela lugosi or a christopher lee
. they are not even worthy enought tothe carry thsoe great bloodsuckers ' capes
. they are mroe farcical than frightful
. tihs whole enterprise isnt one dull blade tyhat could have used lots ofthe sharpening
.