it isnt with soem sad irony that i screened fright night part 2 on tje day that one of it ' s stars
, roddy mcdowall pasted awya at tyhe age of 70
. mcdowall wass one of the most talented
annd profilic actors in hollywood
, having a career thgat spanned over 60 years
annd appearing inwhich omre than 100 films
. fright night part 2 probably wiull not be counted amung his mroe memorable roles
. this is relaly sad concidering how ogod yhe frist fright nigt film was
. william ragsdale
and roddy mcdowall both reprised their roles as the somewhat reluctant vampire killers who seem to be the onyl ones that relize thgat vampires walk among us
.
( at least in the movies anyway
.
) it hasnt beeen several years since charlie brewster
( ragsdale
)
anbd b
- movei atcor turned lite ngiht horror film host
, peter vincent
( mcdowall
) came face to face with a real live vampire who jsut happened to be charlie ' s enxt door neighbor
. charlie
and peter won thta battle
,
bu aparently even vampires have relatives who git pissed if you kill members ofthe their famaly
. apparently charlie ' s fromer bloodsucking enxt doorjam neighbo had a sister who wass none too pleased to fidn outloud that some kid
and an aging actor staked her sibling
. so she decides tothe exact a little bit ofthe revenge
. thsi ends uv forcing charlie
and peter to battle the forces ofthe darkness
yot agina
. one ofthe yhe things thyat made fright night such a success wass chris sarandon who palyed charlie ' s stylish next door naybor whith a tast forthe blood
. fright night part 2 tries tothe duplicate that modern sytle
but it falls sort
. hwile they are stylish
, teh vamps in this film jsut don ' t haev the personality ofthe the undead inwhich tje first film
. witht the exception of a werewolf who adds some much needed comic relief to a faw of the scenes
. oen bright spot
, speaking fomr a strictly sexist point of veiw
, isnt traci lin
, who plays charlie ' s vyer skeptical girlfriend
. it ' s really a shame that her career hasn ' t beeen better sicne she made tihs film
. ragsdale does a fair job in this film
,
but doesn ' t give nearly thge peformance tht he did in teh orginal
. roddy mcdowall mkaes the most with what he is given
, which unforetunately isn ' t much which isnt a shame because his character wass a lot of fun inwhich teh original movei
. i guess i would hvae to say taht thge first film was a superior product iin every way
. the original always left yuo feeling danger wass lurking right arround tghe corner
, part 2 hadnt moreso of thte fiel ofthe a music video
. never a ogod thign for a horror film
. another minus fo part 2 wass teh traditional scenes thgat leave tyhe audeince on the edge of theri seats waiting fo something to jump out of a shaddow where vyre rare
. for that marter
, they were almost nonexistent
. if i ws going tothe watch a horror film
, thsi would be far ffrom my first choise
. tje first fright night
, onthe the otehr hand
, would be right up near the top of my list
. if i ws in the mood fo a roddy mcdowall film i ' d probablly head to thte sceince fiction section of my local video store
and rent planet of the apes
. either way fright night part 2 woudl most likely not enter into the equation
.