this is thte frist film inwhich whta woudl become the most succsessfull sories ofthe horror films ofthe all timne
. a fair warning tothe thsoe of ytou who might be inclined tothe watch htis movie for the first appeareance ofthe everyone ' s favorite goalie
- mask
- wearing homicidal maniac
. jason
, yhe guy who single handedly controled the overpopulation problem around the crystal lake areal
, doesn ' t start his quest to fidn thte most interesting household item with wich tothe kill somene until thte sequel
. while he doesnt have a small role inaddition tihs film
, we tghe audience hvae to depend onthe anyother blood thirsty maniac tothe rack up the body count
. thge plot
, liek eveyr otehr friday teh 13th movie goes something liek this
-
- crazed killer murders as many unsuspecting teenagers as he
/ she
/ it possibly can in the spoace ofthe a 90 minute movei
. the reasons taht thge afore mentioned unsuspecting teenagers cmo inot contact with the bloodthirsty killer are usually of little importance to thge stroy
.
but for thsoe ofthe you out there that might actulaly care baout such trivial matters in a movei such as a plot
, here are hte basics
. a bunch of unsuspecting teens get a summer job at a long closed summer camp
. they are dyas awya from tghe arrival ofthe the kids
and they are spending their time fixing thge palce uv
and makeing sure it is ready for thte kids
. sadly
, they start being butchered one by oen by the bloodthirsty killer
. at thsi point i owudl usually sday something baout thte uality of acting
, directing or maeby something baout yhe high qality of hte prodcution
. usance i ' m not going tothe dont tht
, feel free to asume that if i doed
, it wouldn ' t be positive
. i iwll sday thast tihs movei looks as if it wass made forthe baout a hundered bucks
,
adn thta includes teh actors ' saleries
. if ytou are utilizied to recent horror films like scream
, yuo are infact for a bit ofthe a suprize
. the onyl saveing grace fo friday tghe 13th isnt that it was really teh first of its kind
, whith the killer tkaing real prade in thier wrok
. useing as many methods ofthe murder as htey could
. none of tihs single muder weapon stuff life tht unimaginative leatherface in chainsaw masicer
, or tjhe creatively stifled imagination ofthe halloween ' s michael myers who jstu used brute force or a realy big kitchen nife
. nope
, in tje friday tjhe 13th movies
, yuo can always count on the killer tkaing grat prade in his work
. one funn fact about tihs movie isnt thgat teh cast includes a very young kevin bacon
,
although after this movie it isnt a wonder he ever worked agian
. the main reason to see friday the 13th isnt if yuo whant tothe watch all ofthe tyhe serieses fomr the beginning
. if not
, stick with the later films wtih jason
, everyone ' s favorite hockey fan
. friday the 13th is the sort of movie tht is fun tothe sit down
annd get a cuple of scares ffrom
, just don ' t sit down expecting a wohle lot
.