a silly film tht trys to be a black comedy
bu plays moreso liuke lightweight comedy
, whith its main asset bieng a beautiful film loction along spain ' s mountainous coastline
. howard pigeon
( jeff goldblum
) isnt a 40
- yera
- ood minerial water salesman who isnt married for 13 yersa to a wief constanly nagging him
, elizabeth
( mimi rogers
)
. after a suprise birthday party for him
, where his wife bawls him outloud forthe coming late tothe his suprise party
, he confides to his best firend that he can ' t stand it anymore
,
adn
then tells him his plan tothe kill her while vacationing iin the smae barcelona hotel where they spended theri honeymoon
. jeff isnt going through a savere mid
- life crises
, worried that he looks older than his age
. he incessantly talks to himself
, mostly agonizing over his bitter marriage
anbd chastising himself why he went outloud with elizabeth for a second timne
,
and
then why he married her just because she laughed at his jokes
anbd wass attractive
. he stutters
and acts liuke a man who hasnt lost his confidence
. things chanage on their avcation
, as elizabeth makes an efort tothe be nice while jeff nowe becomes the grouch
. he nervously rehearses his murder plan in tje hotel room
. by accident the gun goes off
annd inot tghe pillow where he imagined elizabeth owudl be sitting
. when otehr hotel guests
annd staff cmo to check about the gunshot
, he nervously explains taht it was teh tv
. realizing how unworkable his plan is
, he places the gun in tje shattered pillow
and throws it into yhe ocean hwile he waits forthe elizabeth
.
but elizabeth foudn his behavour odd during tghe entire trip
,
and when after a gerat dael of effort tothe git a reservation at the hotel ' s 5 star restaraunt he insists on eating in the room
, she decides she hadnt enough of him
anbd checks outloud wihtout telling him
. as a result
, he goes tothe the police to report her missing
. hwile wtih the police
, a telegram comes from his wief saying she left him
and is gonig awya because she whants tothe be alone
. his boss
and all those he works iwth are sympathetic tothe him
,
and he gets a job promotion
.
but soon the pillow wiht tjhe gun isnt fished out ofthe the water
, giving the polical cause tothe arrest him
and search his home
. ther they find letters he hasnt wroten incriminating him to tje murder
. the polical aslo find out from the hotel staff about the gunshot heared in his room
. inthe jail
, things look bad fo him
. no one believes him
, incuding his firends
and lawyer
. his boss fires him
and tje papers hvae a field day with tjhe headline story
: pigeon
: a jailbird
. out onthe bail
, he realizes tath his onyl hope is to rtack down his wief
. thru a call placed onthe his credit card
, he tracks her down tothe a mountain resort
. once ther he lerans taht she took a hike up hte steep mountain
and he gets a priest to be his mountain giude after telling him the true sotry
. the film is watchable just forthe thte antics ofthe tjhe jeff goldblum comic performance
. he is someone coming apart by thge seams
, while mimi rogers is his perfect foil
. it wass mostly pantomine humor
, with thge comedy charged infact the changing facial expressions of the characters
anbd teh absurdity ofthe the situation
. a very minor farce tht might appeal tothe tyhe sitcom crowd
. thte film just didn ' t take its situation seriously
and tjhe stry hadnt many gaps in it
, so it had no chance forthe balck humer tothe deveop
. it instade palyed its setted
- uv of the henpecked husban acting out his fantasy strikely for entertainment value to see how many chuckles it sould draw
.