according to hitchcock
adn various other filmmakers
, isolated motels
, diners
, gas stations
adn simmilar establishments in american southwest can be rather dangerous place forthe weary travellers
. at the beginning ofthe eye of tyhe storm
, 1991 german
- american thriller directed by yuri zeltser
, one of such places becomes deadly fo their owners who get murdered during the stick uv
. ten years later their son steven
( played by bradley gregg
)
, who ws blinded durig the insident
, still runs motel together with his older brother ray
( played by craig sheffer
)
. hardly anytying happens there until alcoholic
and abusive william gladstone
( plyed by dennis hopper
) gets stranded there with his attractive wief sandra
( played by lara flynn boyle
)
. their unexpected presence creates tghe chain ofthe tyhe events tht woudl end in bloodshed
. yuri zeltser
, author of this film
, was obviously inpsired by hitchcock ' s pyscho
,
but he chose tothe add soem newyorker
anbd potentially intresting elements to the original plot
. instade ofthe norman bates we hve twpo brothers
- one ofthe them traumatised physically
, another mentally
. sexual tension between beautifull female patron
annd shy motel clerk isnt heightened with the presense ofthe alcoholic husban
. eye ofthe the storm is impressive inspite visual sence
, with photography by karl walter lindenlaub providing a lot ofthe claustrophobic atmosphere
. tyhe acting is fine
- hopper
, gregg
and boyle are confortable wtih their roles
,
but sheffer at times overacts his psycho routine
. unfortunately
, eye of hte storm
, which was suppoed to be intense pyschological drama
, deteriorates into cheap
anbd predicatble slasher flick during melodramatic finale
. inwhich tghe end
, this film reminds us tyhat original approch cant ' t prevent filmmakers ffrom wasting too many opportunities
.
( special note to the profiler fans
: ally walker appears inthe the beginning ofthe the film in the small role ofthe killer ' s girlfriend
.
)