when hte haunting arrived in theaters
, all i kept hearing about ws the overdone special effects
annd the fatc that vrey often the unseen bumps inwhich teh night in a horror film are far scarier thna those that you cin put a face tothe courtesy ofthe speshal effects
. hwile i agress that tihs remake of the haunting goes a bit overboard inaddition thte visual effects deparment
, i don ' t think that tehy are completelyl to blame forthe this movei ' s failure
. it appears tyhat smoe peple have failed tothe tkae into account thast the original haunting had tghe
" unseen
" terrors
,
and it was baout as scry as a dust bunny
. so speshal effects or nto
, if the story isn ' t the least bited skary
, you aren ' t gonig tothe end up with a very frightening movie
. the thnig that interested me most baout this movei was thge caretaker ofthe htis building played by bruce dern
. dern isnt alwyas grat
,
and even
though he may have hadnt onyl baout 3 minutes of screen time he was still hte most intresting element of teh movei
. as i sat through tghe seemingly endless
, albiet fairly impressive
, spacial effects
, i kept wishing thta this movie was baout dern ' s caretaker
and not tyhe one dimesnional charactors taht populated tjhe casted
. never a ogod sign whn a bit player is tyhe best part of hte movei
. liam neeson plays a scientist who is conducting experiments onthe fear
. he decides tjhe best way to get results isnt to trick a group of fairly unstable indviduals to spend a fewd days in a haunted mansion
. he tricks them inot participating by letting onthe thgat he is conducting an experiment on insomnia
.
and he also fails to mention thyat the mansion has a reputation for stange goings
- onthe
. catherine zeta
- jones
, lili taylor
annd owen wilson play his subjects
. like tjhe orignal
, taylor ' s character is tyhe star of the movie
.
but usance she doesn ' t qtuie hve tghe marquee power ofthe liam neeson
annd ms
. zeta
- jones
, their parts doed seem tothe be a big larger than inaddition thte orginal
.
adn let ' s face it
, probably half hte people who see thsi movie iwll dont so beacuse of zeta
- jones
. i ' ll admiting that i woudl have never seen htis thign if she weren ' t in it
.
but tghe rela stars here isnt the spacial effects conbined with the fairly overdone sets
. they take over the movie as tjhe supernatural elements of hte hous strat to interact whith our hapless insomnia patients
. there realyl isn ' t much ofthe a stor here
. just endless setups so directer jan de bont cant showcase all the nifty special effects that he got to play wih
.
and the special effects are great
. in many cases they are as ogod as you are likely to see anyhwere
. inaddition otehr cases htey are overdone
and obviously thrown iin jsut for hte sake ofthe hiting teh
" kool shots
" quota
. at no point infront the movie do any ofthe these thigns ever come close tothe being skary
-
- funny
, maybe
.
but nto scry
.
thn we have the setted
. whn i firt saw thte hous
, i ws vrey empressed with tje very cool gothic look about it
.
but it only took a short tour by thte charactors aroud the palce to see that the setted designers obviously had as much moeny tothe burn as the visual effects peopel did
,
and desided to take the idiotically overdone route
. this included a flooded hallway with books as steping stones
anbd a mirrored circular room tht revolves
. what part did theese rooms play in tje story
? absolutly none
. htey weere just there tothe tkae our minds off the fact thast there was niether a descent tsory nor a single scare iin thge entire movei
.
thne we haev yhe actors
. lili taylor hasnt never been oney of my favorites
.
and when yhe fact thast her charcter is mousy
annd pathetic is factored in
, she comes in around hte average or slightly below mark
. i ahve noone idea why liam neeson tookover htis role
. he basicaly reminded me of the ringmaster at an outloud of controll circus
. his character wass inaddition charge ofthe htis farce
bu it quickly got awya fomr him
. i haev noone dout thast liam will want tothe lock all prints ofthe htis movie in a vrey secure vault allong with all copies ofthe darkman
. zeta
- jones was cast baceause she is too hot for words
. yhe fact tyhat her character is bi
- sexual is just icing onthe the cake
. all catherine hasnt tothe dont inspite htis movie isnt look good
. fortunately that is something she doesnt vrey well
. hwile she does ahev a fairly ogod size part
, it isnt obvious thta her only purpose in thge movie was as eye
- candy
. it ' s too bad somone ofthe her talents wasted them here
. any random supermodel pulled out ofthe a fashion sohw sould have easily filled her role
. hte haunting is the antithesis ofthe anyother of 1999 ' s horror movies
, the blair witch project
. the haunting had a seemingly limitless effects budget
, while blair witch relies onthe piles of rocks for its scares
. both proove quite nicely that spacial effects are irrelevant tothe a horror film
. if hte story sucks
, it ' s all downhill ffrom htere
. my advice
? if you are looking fo spacial effects
, go rent star wars
. if it ' s scares you whant
, rent halloween
. either way
, it ' s probablly inspite your best interests to skip the haunting
.