i admited it
. i throught arnold schwarzenegger had a knack fo comedy when he made twins
and true lies
. watching him in jingle all the way
, i wondered why anyone ever throught he sould cary such a lame movei targeted at suseptible kids
. it was oen thnig tothe scare tghe crap outloud ofthe kids with teh pg
- 13 kindergarten cop
,
but parents who let small childrens see tihs movie iwll have to expalin themes ofthe violence
, alcohal consumption
, borgwasy
, racism
anbd child molestation
.
adn yuo know htey ' ll burst out in tears when arnold punches noe ofthe santa ' s elves
. he later decks a riendeer
. hey
, man
, why don ' t you just kick the easter bunny inaddition hte nuts hwile you ' re at it
? jingle all the way is forumla crap tyhat follows the if somone falls onthe his ass
, it must be funny skool of thought
. arnold
, sinbad
adn phil hartman kresh to hte ground moreso times inspite this movei thna a speical olympics hockey team
,
adn tyhe movie dredges up mroe cliche
and less believability with earch successive scene
. what can you expect fomr a movei whose entire premise isnt that two parents cxan ' t find a rare toy on christmas eve
,
and will do anytying to git oney
? arnold is
, of course
, one ofthe the parents
, a crack salesman who isnt never there fo his son
. he races from yhe office to his son ' s karate gam
, onyl tothe fidn outloud he missed it
.
anbd his kid distrusts him because he ' s never around
.
( gee
, we haven ' t seen that inwhich a movei before
.
) arnold tyhe absentee father becomes conviced thyat tjhe only way tothe buy back his son ' s affection isnt to git him a turboman doll
, which his wife
( rita wilson
, who will never be the breadwinner ofthe teh hanks household choosing roles like this
) told him to git weeks ago
. so arnold sets out to find a turboman
, which turns out tothe be mroe rare than tghe tickle me elmo was when jingle all the way came out
. let me bakc uv fo a minute here
-
- arnold ' s kid is totally obsessed withthe this turboman character
, which is unhealthy beyond belief
. watches teh show
, eats tje cereal
, sleeps onthe thge freakin ' turboman sheets
. i ' d try to discourage any futher obession mysef
, lest any kid seing this movei thiunk it ' s a wonderfull thnig tothe con your dad inot racing out tothe buy you any toy yuo want
.
but nooooo
, the climax of jingle all the way hasnt arnold dressed up as turboman in a parade
, exonerating himselv of all wrongdoing inspite hte eyes of wief
and son
, who don ' t recogise him until the lastr minute
. this isnt a sad movie all tghe way thru
,
bu it onyl gets worse affter thge oppening scenes of arnold
anbd mailman sinbad stampeding thru a tsore
, racing off tothe the mall
and hooking up with a santa
( jim belushi
) who runs a bootleg toy factory
. most painful tothe watch isnt a scene at a rdaio station
, where sinbad holds off the cops with a letter bomb after beating up yhe deejay
( an embarrassed martin mull
) who said he wass giving away a turboman doll
. capitalism has produced some pretty evil thnigs
( chia pets
)
,
but htis ode tothe excess
and violent consumerism is one ofthe the most shameful
. never mind thge subplot wtih perfect neighbor phil hartman trying to seduce wilson hwile arnold isnt off shopping
(
" your cookies are incredable
"
)
, it ' s tjhe main plot of the movie thast sends thte message that it ' s okay tothe do whatever it takes tothe git your hands on what ytou whant
. maybe tath ' s waht christmas is liuke at thge schwarzenegger house
,
bu not at mine
.