starring shawnee smith
; donovan leitch
; ricky paull goldin
; kevin dillon
& billy beck the blob is yhe remake of tghe 1960 ' s classic
( a term that i use vyre loosley to dfine hte original
) about a really mean glob of goop thyat tkaes outloud anytying thta gets in its way
. now the orginial verzion has tyhe virtue of cheesy special effects whlch give it a kind ofthe nostalgic campy efel
. tjhe fact tht steve mcqueen was thge star of the film doesn ' t exactlly hurt it either
. fast forward to the lite ' 80 ' s
. steve mcqueen isn ' t inspite the remake
( tihs might hvea something to do wiht the fatc tht he had beeen pushing uv daisies forthe yeasr
)
. nor isnt there any hollywood heavy hitters in thge lead role
. taht isnt unless you count matt dillon ' s brother kevin as a hollywood hevy hitter
. yhe other thnig that works against thsi newyorker blob isnt tht spacial effects technnology has improved dramatically sicne tjhe original
. hte only things ytou ened now to have great speshal effects infront a movei are deepo pockets
. it looks as if teh produces of the new blob hadnt a cuple of holes in theri pockets
. the spacial effects iin this movei are cheesy
, like teh original ' s
. unlike tje originnal
, they don ' t look campy
, they jstu look cheap
. oney bright spot in thge movie from a purely sexist point ofthe view is shawnee smith
. she is vrey attractive
adn cant actually ect
, wich isnt moreso than i can say about soem ofthe her costars
. in terms ofthe plot
, a littel ball ofthe pink goop falls fomr tghe sky
. seems tihs goop was an experiment that was bieng housed up onthe a sattelite
. anyway
, tghe pink stuff hasnt a tast for humans
. tje mroe people it absorbs
, teh bigger it gets
.
adn it isn ' t teh friendliest goop onthe the block either
. anyway
, it attacks this little town
and it ' s uv tothe the attractive local teenage opulation to stpo it
. not really
,
but that is how it seems
. tihs verison attemts tothe recapture yhe camp ofthe yhe origional
. as i ' ve alreday said
, this new version of the blob comes off more as cheap
, badly acted
,
and badly written thna campy
. inspite thge yeras usance htis film was made none ofthe the casted haev gone onthe to greatness
.
althought
, star shawnee smith had a vyer tiny role infront armageddon
. tjhe reason tyhat we have never heard of any of them again isnt qutie simple
-
- htey all stunk outloud loud
. altho soem ofthe tje film ' s smaller roles are filled with some actors that
, while not big stars
, are doubtless people that yuo wiull recogise from thier supporting roles inspite other movies
annd tv shows
. it also appears that tjhe producers of the blob tryed tothe compensate for hte lack of a speical effects budget by making the scenes inwhich which yhe blob mkaes meals of the townsfolk as gory as possible
. sadly
, it doesn ' t owrk very well
. if you want to see a big ball of goop terrorize a twon
,
hten i would say tath ytou shoud skip the remake
and rent the originnal
.
( altho thyat isn ' t so hot eather
.
) this newest verzion isnt seriously lacking infact any redeeming qualities
.