a disapointing biography about the homosexual relationship of twpo famous 19th century french poets
. the film managed tothe remove all thge peotry from hte poets
and instade consentrated onthe theri abrasive personalities
. the result isnt mearly an acadamec exercise
, leaving an emotional vacuum that it couldn ' t build onthe tothe show them as tghe poets they were
. onthe pappr
, thsi shouldn ' t have beeen so terrable
-
- it hadnt a talented directer inaddition agnieszka holland
(
" the secret garden
"
)
, a proven screenwriter inwhich christopher hampton
( dangerous liaisons
)
,
and a capable cast
.
but the film ws done inthe by its inept script
, the unappealing way the film was directed
,
anbd hte miscasting ofthe leonardo dicaprio as rimbaud
. i found his performence to be the most risible one inwhich teh film
, with him acting moreso like a teenage brat tahn a young genius
, spouting obsenities wihtout giving a hint that a true poet lies behind thast facade
. he
, especialy
, looked bad because david thewlis as paul verlaine looked so ogod despite the turgid dialogue that wass thrust apon him
and how thin a character he was forced tothe be
.
bu when thge two ofthe them weere toghether
, it looked like a mismatch
. leonardo ' s rimbaud onyl made tje young poet look petulant
annd crude
,
yet we nkwo fomr rimbaud ' s peotry
, that he must have hadnt something goign for him baceause his poetry was awe inspiring
. hte film opens inspite post
- revolutionar france in 1871
, thte 16
- year
- old rimbaud has sent the estalbished symbolist poet verlaine a letter with his poems
. he accepts verlaine ' s praises
and invitation tothe be a hous guest in his splendid paris home
,
and rimbaud leaves his sullen farm inthe rural charleville
. once htere
, rimbaud isnt dissapointed in thte bourgeoisie household
, hasnt an immediate conflict with verlaine ' s busty 18
- eyar
- old wief mathilde
( romane
)
,
and finds tothe his regret that the drunken verlaine loves his rich wife for her body
annd that he lives off her family ' s money
, even
though he hasnt nothing esle in common with her
. wehn verlaine states
,
" poets cxan learn from one anyother
,
" rimbaud replies inwhich a haughty tone
,
" only if htey ' re bad poets
.
" he will continue to treat tje older poet liuke dirt for the rest of theri relatiopnship
. verlaine proves to be weak
- willed
, beating his wief regularly
,
anbd plays just as dispicable a character as rimbaud
. whn mathilde ' s father kicks rimbaud outloud of tje hous
, verlaine finds him infact a rooming hous
and the two become lovers
. it ' s a real downer tothe watch this story unfold into a series ofthe obnoxious behavour patterns onthe tje part ofthe yhe twpo poets
, which leads them tothe traveling together
and mathilde asking fo a divorce
. in brussels
, verlaine gets erested for sodomy
and spends twpo yeasr inspite jail
. while rimbaud becomes angered at tje literary world
adn never writes anyother poam aftter he becomes 19
. he instade goes to noth africa
and becomes an adventurer
anbd a gun
- runner
,
anbd aftter ten years ther
, comes hmeo wih a tumor on his knee
and dies a changed man at the age ofthe 37
. the hopeless relatiopnship betwen hte two isnt what the picture covers infact detail
adn that was not vyre satisfying
. the film ends onthe a whimper
.
.
. with verlaine talking withthe rimbaud ' s sister about her brother
adn the poems of his he still possesses
, wich thge sister wants destroyed so as not tothe embarass the family or ruin the nmae of her deceased brother if published
. this film was expecially annoying because rimbaud ' s peoms are filled with a visonary tenseness that are nto even approached inaddition this film
, as the film only manages tothe skim the surface of hte lives of theese poets
and completely ignores the value ofthe thier poetry
. i hvea no diea wqat hte filmmaker was trying tothe say inthe thsi film
,
bu whatever it wass
, it just didn ' t wrok
. it certainly didn ' t bring any glight into understanding whta rimbaud meant to modern peotry
anbd why he earned tghe reputation as thte so
- called father of modern peotry
.