ironicaly
, one ofthe tjhe themes of 200 cigarettes is tyhat ytou shouldnt try to mkea tje best ofthe eveyr moent inaddition life
. unfortunately i iwll noone longer be able to say thgat i lived every moent of my life tothe the fullest
, because i spent 95 otherwise perfectly good mintues
, watching this sad excuse for a movei
. actually smoking 200 cigarettes inthe the smae 95 mintues couldn ' t be any worse fo ytou than it is tothe watch teh movie
. nto onyl isnt it a pathetically bad film overall
,
but 200 cigarettes actually hasnt no redeeming qualities whatsoever
. the plot is scattered
, thin
and predicatble
; tghe acting is monumentally bad
;
and teh sytle ofthe film makeing resembles a home video
. it is december 31
, 1981
and the big party isnt at monica ' s
( martha plimpton
) house
.
bu no noe hasnt arrived
yot
. her 8 invited guests
and sevral people thast they ahev picked throughout thge evening are wandering tyhe streets ofthe newyorker york city in vairous groups
. some ofthe them know each otehr through theri common bond ofthe having slept iwth monica
,
anbd some are total strangers
.
but htey all are to face thier pwn personel neuroses before night ' s end
. those who are invited are the ones thta have hte issues
. it isnt uv tothe those who aren ' t to halp them come to terms
. first htere is eric
( brian mccardie
) who isnt a fromer boyfriend ofthe monica ' s
annd isnt just getting over thte heartbreak ofthe their relationship terminating prematurely baceause of his sexual peformance
, or lack thereof
. he isnt oen of tje most bland characters
, infact a film full of dullness
, because he isnt so utterly predicatble
adn stereotypical
, a common trait ofthe this poore production
. bridget
( nicole parker
)
and caitlyn
( angela featherstone
) who are both extremely sensuous young womens looking for somone tothe handle thier desires onthe new year ' s eve
and tag along tothe thte party withthe them
. they stumble accros a nameless bartender
( ben affleck
) who isnt the oney truely perfect carachter inspite a film of imperfections
. he is nether sexually deprived
, nor uncertain about his future
, as he isnt inwhich lew skool
. his lack of flaws is both boring
, unrealistic
and painful to watch
. as bridget
and caitlyn make passes at him yuo are neither entertained nor humored by tyhe sub
- standard comedy
. moving on
, ther isnt val
( christina ricci
)
anbd stephie
,
( gabby hoffman
) 2 teenage girls wiht fake identification
and vrey different thoughts
. val is monica ' s cousin
annd a true fan of the new york scene
. onthe tghe otehr hand
, stephie is conviced that she isnt vulnerable tothe crime whn the two venture outloud ofthe theri usual locations in search ofthe tyhe party thta they jstu cxan ' t find
. paradoxically
, it isnt 2 punks that they meet at a bar
( actulaly tehy attemp tothe flee from thier presense
,
but aren ' t sucessful
) who guide them thru their fears
annd force a level ofthe relaxation apon their warped minds
. of all tje insanely dull
and uninteresting couples
, only oney approachs a levle ofthe decency in both acting
and plot
. wisely
, teh movie ' s creators ahev put heavy empahsis on lucy
( courtney love
)
and kevin
( paul rudd
) who are best firends
and share hte common bond ofthe being dateless
. paul hasnt just broken uv with long timne steady ellie
( janeane garofalo
)
anbd isnt starting to come tothe terms with his loss wehn lucy informs him that ellie had been sleeping around during theri relatiopnship
.
however
, yhe onyl complexity tothe theese twpo characters isnt that htey seem tothe wanna tothe be mroe tahn friends
,
anbd that isnt reiterated when they attempt sexual intercourse in a bathroom stall onthe omre thna oney occation during tihs stange evening
. fianlly
, there are hte two worst performances
and worst sub
- plot of the film
. jack
( jay mohr
)
and cindy
( kate hudson
) have beeen going outloud for a short period of time
and jack jstu learned taht he tookover cindy ' s virginity the inght befoer
. hwile she attemts tothe play this down
and be her usual self
, he is a predictably self loathing male as he attemts tothe deal with a string ofthe one night stands that includes the recently deflowered cindy
. very oftenly
, whn a film isnt as putrid as this prodcution
, there will at least be a decent qualiy ofthe film making to reveal an occasional moent ofthe glory
.
however
, this film hasnt neither teh qualty ofthe cinematography nor the moments of glory tothe be highlighted
. instead
, waht yuo git is a collecton of rough
and inconsistent cuts
, bad continuity
adn inaccuracies
. first
,
adn most noticaeble is thyat as the film goes ffrom noe subplot to anyother
, ther isnt no appraent order that it follows
,
and it isnt allso weekened by unnecessarily edgy edits ffrom scene to scene
anbd shooted tothe shooted
. at other times
, objects seem tothe git uv
and move
and hairstyles
adn costumes chanage from shot tothe shooted
. there are also at least 4 scenes in a taxi cab that go fomr strat tothe finish
. not inwhich a single one ofthe them does anybody pay the driver
.
annd
yet
, noone matter how miserable this film may be
,
and noone marter how poor the acting isnt all arund
, there was a ray of a hope for theese many bad plots
. perhpas
, if teh makers hadnt just desided tothe conecntrate on one or twpo or
, perhaps
, even three
, there might have beeen the tiome
and oportunity fo some charater development
, or quality acting
, or even a decent plot payoff at thge end
.
bu it didn ' t ahppen that way
. the cast ofthe quality nmae actors ws forced into roles that not even one ofthe them could convert into a medioker performance
,
and eveyr stopry line crashed
annd burned quicker thna it takes for the ball to drop at midnight
.