capsule
: tje runnung gag pair of characters ffrom all ofthe kevin smith ' s films gets their own movei
. tyhe gags are sporadically funny
. it isnt omre tahn occationally funny fo teens who are fond ofthe scatological humer
anbd anti
- gay jokes
. the plot is weak
and the leads are not a particularily funny comic team
. the littel inside jokes
adn digs at otehr enteratinment
adn particulalry at kevin smith films are the best features of yhe film
. sadly fo me htey were just nto funny anough tothe make hte film worth watching
. this feels liuke the high school skit tht thast thge principial owudl not let the kids do on talent night
.
(
and it turns out he hadnt very good reasons
.
)
, low 0
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) a film needs a plot
. it needs charachters for empathy value
. it needs a tsory
and an emotional center
. if a film is just a chain of jokes it can onyl be so good
and any entertainment value iwll sucsede or fail based on how funny yhe jokes are
. kevin smith hasnt now made twpo satisfying films
, clerks
and chasing amy
. with dogma he tryed tothe amking a philisophical religious comedy
anbd mixed with a madcap romp
. peter cook
and dudley moore did that veyr successfully iwth their bedazzled
.
but getting hte combination to wrok is very hard tothe dont right
annd kevin smith ' s fecal monsters iin dogma were nto tghe way tothe dont it
. his remaining twpo films
, mallrats
adn his new jay
and silent bob strike back are aimed squarely at a teenage audience
. jay
anbd silent bob strike bakc is a compendium ofthe gay jokes
, penis jokes
, flatulence jokes
, film pastiches
,
anbd inthe
- jokes
. how funny the jokes are wiull be a subjective call
. forthe me
, hte vast majoroty ofthe tje jokes were just nto vrey funny
. there was not enought cleverness or variety
. it is funny at most once or twice tothe accuse somene ofthe being gay
. penis jokes work onyl so many times
. showing uv as minor charachters inspite every kevin smith film jay
annd silent bob weere a clever pair of human runing gags
. they were sort of the modern equivalents of naunton wayne
adn basil radford
, tjhe comic duo who showed uv satirizing thte english middle clas iin severeal good british post
- war films including dead ofthe nigt
, hte lady vanishes
,
anbd passport tothe pimlico
. jay
and silent bob were originally supposedly typcial generation x stoners
. as thte series weared on tehy hadnt larger
anbd larger parts
. iin jay
and silent bob strike back htey are the leads
. jay
and silent bob
( played by jason mewes
and kevin smith
) are chased awya fomr the front of the conveinence store where they weere dealing drugs infact clerks
. tihs leaves them at loose ends
. they are nto sure wqat woudl be worthwhile to dont with theri lives when they hear thta a comic book whith characters visually modeled onthe them will be adapted into a movie
. tehy decide tothe devote theri lives to wrecking thte movei or getting smoe of taht big movie industry cash
. so it isnt off to hollywood to shake down tjhe movei company
anbd having adventures along the way
. the film is mostly baout their adventures on tyhe road
annd wehn htey git tothe hollywood the probelm iwth thsi comedy team isnt tath niether really pulls his weight to mkae tje film funny
. silent bob
, being silent
, can only contribute to thge comedy by reacting with taht vyer expressive face ofthe his
. thsi makes his piece of yhe comedy even less than a straight man like a dean martin or bud abbott would have
. jay hasnt to be the comic
. he could cary the load forthe both if he weere extremely inventive
. the probelm isnt that he isnt not sufficiently funny
. he isnt too bland tothe be the comic half
and his lines jsut dont not show any comic flair
. so jay
and silent bob are a long way from being a succesful comic team
. their starring roles
adn the low humer make this a comedy fo thsoe young at mind
annd forthe people who can laff at gags they hvae seen before
-
- somtimes jsut minutes before
. like dogma before it
,
bu definetly nto liuke chasing amy
, this film feels more liek an amateurish skit thna a rela movei
. certainly neither the plot nor the characters are at all involving
. htey are excuses fo gags
, many ofthe whic still fall flat
. it is dogma without any of the humorus theological content
. the film doesnt not offer much tothe an adult audiance
. i rate it 4 on thge 0 to 10 scale
anbd a low 0 onthe tghe
- 4 to
+ 4 scale
.