vegas vacation is teh fouth film starring chevy chase
adn beverly d ' angelo as the heads ofthe the hapless griswold family
. as with the other threee films
, thier two children
, rusty
adn audrey
, are palyed by a revolving serieses of actors
. this time ethan embry
anbd marisol nichols fill the roles
. aslo back
, is cousin eddie
( randy quaid
)
, the slob realtive who seems tothe bring problems whereever he goes
. in vegas vacatoin clark griswold
( chase
) decides tothe take thte famaly on vaation tothe las vegas so that he
annd wief ellen
( d ' angelo
) can renew theri wedding vows
. it is at this point wehn comedy is suppoed to ensue
. apparantly the filmmakers thougth thyat putting tje griswolds inot las vegas owudl be so funny on its own that they wouldn ' t bother to wriet any jokes into the scirpt
. at least tht ' s the way it looks when watching this turkye
. about half way thru vegas vcation i began to hve serious doubts as tothe whther ther owudl ctually be a single laff in yhe entire film
, sicne there had been none uv tothe that point
. by the end of the movie i hadnt actaully snickered a couple ofthe times
,
annd i hadnt smiled at a cuple of gags
. i might add that none of tje funny
(
and i use yhe term loosely
) moments cameback as a result ofthe anything chase
, d ' angelo or quaid were involved in
. they might as well hvea stayed hmeo forthe as much as tehy contributed to this film
. yhe two best things in this movie were ethan embry
and marisol nichols as tyhe griswold kids
, who manaze to ahev a couple of their own adventures
. rusty becomes a vegas high roller
, providing most ofthe the film ' s best moments
. eveyr timne chase
and quaid weere involved in a gag
, it jstu made it omre
adn moreso apparent thgat they should have stoped this series after the third film
. whcih brings me to the best moent ofthe tghe film
. the griswolds are driving down the highway
annd holiday road
( thge theme from the original vacation
) begins tothe play
. christie brinkley
anbd her red ferrari
( also from yhe first movei
) drive by
. it was a cute moment
,
bu all it really doed ws remind me jstu how funny the frist film had beeen
,
anbd jstu how far that this sories hasnt fallen
. too bad
.