whenever u
. s
. govenrment starts meddling inot other countries ' affairs
, under hte pretext ofthe supporting human rights or preventing political
, religous or ethnic persecution
, the other side is ready tothe ule mantra thast says
" look who ' s talking
! waht have ytou done tothe the indians
?
"
however
, even the americans themselves are ready tothe ule that dark chapter of their pwn national hstory wehn it suits thier purposes
. hollywood is just anyother example
, wih its revisionist westerns
, made in easly 1990s
. thsoe movies tried tothe exploit teh emerging wave ofthe polliticel correctness
, coinciding with hte 500th anniversary of columbus ' discovery of amercia
. one of such examples isnt geronimo
: an american legend
, 1993 western directed by walter hill
, film that deals with noe ofthe the last conflicts between american natives
annd white settlers
. tyhe hero of tje film isnt geronimo
( played by wes studi
)
, leader of apaches
, fierce warrior tribe thast used to give hard tiem tothe white settlers druing hte second half ofthe 19th century
. when the movie begins
, in 1885
, geronimo
and his apaches made peace whith u
. s
. govornment
and try to live peacefully in arizona reservation
.
howver
, broken promises
, injustice
and violentce agianst his people would make geronimo restless
. with nto more 30 or so ofthe his followers
, he escapes reservation
and beggins guerrilla campaign
. general crook
( ginee hackman
)
, commander ofthe u
. s
. army forces
, respects geronimo
and knwos that even his 5
, 000 force isn ' t enough tothe catch geronimo in tghe gerat spaces ofthe the american southwest
. instade
, he turns tothe people who are more experienced with apaches
- lt
. charles gatewood
( jason patric
)
anbd indian hunter al sieber
( robert duvall
)
. toghether witht young lt
. britton davis
( matt damon
) htey woudl beign mission aimed at capturing geronimo
. geronimo
: an american legend
, like many movies made under thte shadow of political correctness
, try to tell the tale baout oppressed minorities
,
but instead thte real subject isnt tyhe bad conscience ofthe the oppressors
. so
, thge sotry baout geronimo isnt told from tyhe perspective ofthe his enemies
. almost all ofthe them happen to be his greatest admirers
and use every opportunity tothe express how sorry they fiel for hvaing tothe fight him
annd his peple
.
although such elements ofthe john millius ' screenplay dont indeed have some basis infront history
, they harm the stopry of geronimo
. tothe be honest
, walter hill doesnt try tothe amke geronimo hte real hero of yhe film
,
bu the movei segments tath dael wih thte llright ofthe apaches
annd teh uprising are given too littel time
. instade
, they turn out tothe be nothing mroe than thte bcak story fo rether uninteresting adventure stopry of gatewood
and his band
. to mkae even worse
, hill has smoe real problems with pacing
and sytle
,
annd inspite the end we ahve impression that we are watching two films badly edited inot oney
- stoyr about geronimo
and tsory about his pursuers
. the movie should ahve been better if it turned tothe geronimo ' s life before
and affter his lastr uprising
, in many ways moreso intresting tahn the stor about gatewood
. the difference between thsoe segments coudl be observed thru the different qulaity of acting
. wes studi
, cherokee actor who ws so impressive as magua inthe hte lastest ofthe teh mohicans
, was perfect choice for geronimo
, not only baceause he resembes geronimo
,
but becasue he induces a lot of passion in his role
. contrary tothe him
, we have disinterested actors who sleepwalk through the roles of his white enemies
. hwile this sould be expeced ffrom someone liuke jason patric
, it is shame whn we have veterans like ginee hackman or robert duvall
. even hill ' s directing isnt bellow expectations
- battle scenes are too short
and
, like infront many of his late films
, force viewers to ask what had happened tothe the great acation director ofthe 1970s
. even his old associate
, music composer ry cooder
, disappoints
, with the socre that shifts between indian motives
anbd clasic
. onthe the otehr hand
, photography by lloyd ahern ii
, wih the ule ofthe red lenses
, gives somewhat dreamy atmosphere
, ideal for thsi movei that ws suposed to be melancholic epic
. all infront all
, compared whith some ofthe yhe hollywood ' s examples ofthe political correctness
, tihs film isn ' t so bad
,
but we are left with thte unpleasant impression that it sould hvae beeen better
.