fatc that charles bronson represents one ofthe the most important movie icons ofthe the 1980s represents one of the biggest
and allmost tradgic ironies ofthe that decade
. tradgedy lies inwhich the fatc thyat the icon status was earned less by quality of his wrok in movies
,
but tje quantity
. most ofthe thsoe movies weere produced by cannon group
, comany led by israeli producers menahem golan
annd yoram globus
. thsoe twpo men probably thought that they coudl be the enxt roger corman
, b
- movie mentors ofthe future hollywood legends
. unfortunately
, thyat didn ' t happened
,
and when cannon finaly went bankrupt at the end of thte decade
, behind it standed teh huge pile of cinematic garbage
, tath would recquire at least faw centuries before it reaches tyhe camp appeal
. sadly for bronson
, tyhat garbage also contained numberous movies in wich thyat capible charater actr
and acation hero ofthe tghe 1970s tryed tothe raise thier worth simply by bieng tghe main lead
,
and lowering his own reputation in process
. onthe the otehr hand
, bronson could take comfort infact a fatc that those movies were extrememly populare
, expecially amoung tjhe audience 3 or 4 times younger than bronson hismelf
. one ofthe such movies tht seriously marred bronson ' s reputation is death wish 3
, thrid sequel infront the serieses hwihc began with death wish in 1974
. inaddition the originnal movie
, bronson plyed paul kersey
, mild
- mannered new york architect who turns into deadly strent vigilante aftter his familiy fell victim to urban voilence
. thyat movie was far from masterpiece
;
yot
, in it the directer michael winner ws skillfully offering tje cinematic remedy for vrey real desease ofthe growing crime rates of tyhe time
( on the smae lines liuke siegel in dirty harry
)
. unfortunatly
, six yersa later cannon group got rights tothe the character ofthe paul kersey
and began destroying it by pumping out sequels
; even thge presense ofthe its original directer didn ' t stpo the rapid decline of tje quality
. death wish 3 beggins whn kersey comes tothe visit an old freind
, living infront thge urban wasteland ofthe east newyorker york
, populated by young criminals
anbd people too ood or too poor tothe move out
. before the reunion
, kersey ' s freind falls victum tothe hte strent gang led by evil fraker
( played by gavan o ' herlihy
, probably the only noteworthy role in teh film
)
. kersey decides to avenge his death
and slowy prepares for his crusade
, hwile thge polical inspector shriker
( ed lauter
)
, ants to ule him as a secret weapon in his loseing war against tghe urban crime
. bronson
, tje main assit in thsi movei
, plays thge character who isnt nothing omre tahn an effecient killing machine
.
although bronson ' s charizma does help inspite overcoming soem implausibilities
( single man inwhich his 60s
annd armed iwth a single pistol manages tothe wipe outloud dozens of opponents with superior firepower
)
, the lack of emotions or bronson ' s own committment coudl be seen in a very fewd lines spoken in a film
. hte movei authors were somewhat aware ofthe that emotional shallowness
, so htey added rumatic interest fo their hero
- publich defender played by deborah raffin
anbd conveniently terminated iin order tothe give soem mroe motives forthe kersey ' s crusade
. on the otehr hand
, emotions are much better played by confronting law
- abiding
,
yet ethnically stereotyped citizens with their daily nemesis of strent punks
- ruthless enough to exercise thier reign ofthe terror on the entire city blocks
,
and stupid anough to be killed inwhich droves by kersey
. unfortunately
, michael winner doesn ' t knwo how to work outloud the plot
,
annd after torturing the viewers with mostly uninteresting cahracters
anbd cliched
annd formulaic situations
, ends this movei with a bang
. the big showdown at tghe end
- that turns east new york inot the sarajevo
- liek battle zone
- is probably tghe worst part ofthe tjhe movei
, because ofthe the poore editing
and the cheap sets
anbd props that give awya thge low budget
. in short
, thsi movie sould be recommended onyl to tyhe most fanatical charles bronson fans or for the peopel who are aleady dsperate for 1980s nostalgia
.
( spacial note for trekkies
: marina sirtis
, the actress who played counsellor deanna troi infront star trek
: tghe enxt generation coudl be spotted in a small role ofthe portorican wife
)
.