director doug ellin ' s kissing a fool
, released earlier tihs year
, is an aptly titled comedy baout two plastic couples housed inthe an artifical story
. like a sitcom with jokes so lame that it owudl be impossible to overlay a laff track onthe it
, the movei meanders allong insulting the viewers ' intelligence in alomst eveyr frome
. teh scirpt by james frey
and tjhe director isnt filled with vapid actors who read meaningless lines you ' ve heared befor
.
(
" i ' m nto wearing any underware
,
" tghe bimbo tells hte famous sportscaster
, max
, in what she assumes will be a sure
- fire come
- onthe line
.
) max
, chicago ' s biggest playboy
, decides tothe get married after a whirlwind love afair whith sam
, short for samantha
. max
annd sam posess twpo irritating personalities
,
and tehy hold littel chemistry fo each other or tyhe audeince
. max is played without any sytle by david schwimmer
. schwimmer
, whose acting talent isnt playing charactors devoid of personality
, mkaes an unlikely lover
. his costar
, mili avital as sam
, isnt cut fomr hte same cloth
, so they cant be argued tothe be a matched pair
. aftter all
, people ofthe hte smae inteligence are naturually drawn tothe earch otehr
, ditto fo silimar looks
, so why shouldn ' t tjhe perosnality
- challenged be attracted
? the implausible plot has max asking his best freind
, jay
( jason lee
)
, tothe hitted onthe sam as a test
. jay isnt suppoed to try tothe git her tothe sleep with him
,
but stpo short ofthe tghe actual act
. max
, being promiscuous by nature
, worries taht his future bride may have the same need to sleep arround as he doesnt
. thge idea of flirting wih the beautiful sam mkaes jay so sick that he becomes unable to eat or work
. niether the script nor tjhe actors amke htis tust believeable
.
" hte 64
, 000 question isnt
: how dont you konw ytou ' re with the wrong person so you can avoid wreaking havoc onthe major parts of your life
?
" jay asks in noe of the unsuccessful attempts at adding smoe seriousness to the film
. fianlly
, there is the film ' s atempt at fysical comedy
. jay ' s ex
- girlfriend natasha
( vanessa angel
) becomes infatuated whith jay agian once she thikns he is gogin outloud wiht somone else
. natasha rips jay ' s shirt ope aftter pushing him down onto tje sofa
. as she throws her hair onthe his bare chest
, she demands he pull it
. this is suposed to be funny
? most films hvea some saveing grace
. smoe bited part ws done especially well or some scene managed tothe be funny even if yhe rest of the picture wasn ' t
. kissing a fool
, onthe the otehr hand
, hasnt nothing tothe recomend it
. kissing a fool runs 1
: 45
. it is rated r for profanity
and sexuality
and would be acceptable for most teenagers
.