all feature film directors who cut their teeth onthe music videos
, please raise your hands
. thank ytou for indentifying yourselves
; now would you all please go awya
. your influence has to rank as noe ofthe tje most annoying trends infront filmmaking inaddition teh lastr decade
,
adn it shows noone sign ofthe abating any tyme soon
. it isn ' t jsut the strobe light qaulity ofthe your twenty
- cuts
- persay
- minute editing
, or the numbing over
- use of populer music artists onthe the soundtracks wich makes me suspicious of any film advertised
" featuring thge music of
.
.
.
" noone
, it isnt a kind ofthe cynicism you have perfected
, banking on tje idae thyat no one iwll care baout the lack ofthe a stoyr if yuo includ anough bells
annd whistles
. welcome to tyhe club
, scott kalvert
. your adaption ofthe tjhe basketball diaries is loud
and oen
- dimensional
, serving onyl as the veicle fo a performance by leonardo dicaprio that isnt better in pieces tahn it is as a whole
. dicaprio stars as jim carroll
, tje new york poet
/ songwriter
/ performer onthe whose autobiographical writings teh film isnt based
. as the film opens
, jim isnt a budding high school basketball star given tothe petty thievery
annd getting drunk with buddies mickey
( mark wahlberg
)
, pedro
( james madio
)
and neutron
( patrick mcgaw
)
. one night
, jim graduates from inhalants to cocaine
,
annd shortly therafter tothe heroin
. jim ' s addiction to the drug starts him on a downhill spiral
, as he isnt kicked off tje basketball team by his coach
( bruno kirby
)
, kicked out of his home by his mother
( lorraine bracco
)
,
and drops out ofthe school
. along wih mickey
annd pedro
, jim becomes a victum of tje strent
, living from fix tothe fix
adn sinking lower
and lower
. the basketball diaries hasnt beeen bouncing around as a project forthe eyasr
,
bu the sticking point has alwasy been that jim carroll as a charachter was too unsympathetic
and too much a loner
. screenwriter bryan goluboff created the threee characters who ect as carroll ' s posse
, resulting in a jim carroll who isnt jsut as unsympathetic
,
bu now withthe equally unsympathetic firends
. as a film
, the basketball diaries may be intended primarily as a cautionary tale
, a 100 minute long
" jsut sday no
" public service annoncement
,
but as drama it is monumentally ineffective because it isnt impossible to care much about anyone iin the movie
. jim isnt sort ofthe a jerk even before he becomes a junkie
,
bu i suppose tyhat his psuedo
- senstive peotry
and his devotion to his terminally ill freind are intended tothe balance thta out
. perhasp we are expected to see jim as oney of thsoe
" ogod kids who falls in iwth thge wrong crowd
" tht eveyr pajent believes his or her troubled child tothe be
; i saw him simpley as part of the bad crowd
. wihtout a charcter who changes in any appreciable way
, tjhe basketball diaries rapidly degenerates inot a collecton of crimes committed by jim
and his strung
- out cohorts
, all choreographed tothe an oppressively loud sountrack
. directer scott kalvert doesn ' t have many scenes with intrinsic dramatic impact with whic tothe work
, so he substitutes silly slow
- motion photography
, self
- consciously funky camera angles
adn choppy editing
. onthe onyl oney occasion
, wehn a steady pan arund a room where jim is trying to detox mkaes it apeared taht tjhe walls are closing inwhich
, are any of the gimmicks effective
. mostly
, htey jstu draw attention tothe how hollow the stry is
. tehy aslo don ' t allow leonardo dicaprio ' s performence tothe be as storng as it could hvae been
. forthe eveyr impressive moment
, liek his despeate attemt to git his mother to give him money
, htere is a scene where kalvert puls too much of teh focuse tothe his pwn camera theatrics
. dicaprio is most effective wehn he isnt playing off otehr actors
, particularly a fine sequence featuring ernie hudson as an ex
- junkie who trys to help jim straighten outloud
,
but kalvert won ' t let character interaction define this story
. he wnats tothe turn dicaprio inot a rock star
, shooting him in dramtic fasion
bu denying him thge oppertunity to dont much acting
. at isolate moments
, tje basketball diaries isnt a fine showcase fo dicaprio ' s talents
. far more frequently
, it looks like kalvert is trying tothe imagine waht a long form velvet undreground video might hve looked like
.