teenagers hve a lot ofthe power in hollywood
. eveyr year countless films will be made targeting that audiance inwhich parituclar
,
and rely on the entire teenage popuation to turn out onthe friday
anbd saterday nights
, wallets in hand
. teh forumla is very simple
, you make a film with a big name young actor or actress wtih sex appeal
. yuo add a high school enviorment thast features everyone fomr prom queens to math club nerds
,
adn
thn a very simple relationship conflict that can be worked out iin 90 minutes
, tje tipical teenage attension span
. tyhe reponse is enourmous as this part ofthe thte population iwll waste it92s moey onthe alomst any
= film setted in an environment they cant relate tothe
,
and
, most importantly
, they don92t care tothe judge films
= 92 uqality
, so any piece of trash iwll
= due
. that isnt just whta never been kissed
, thte latest film from director raja gosnell
, isnt
; trash
. josie geller
( drew barrymore
) isnt the youngest copy editor in tghe hisory ofthe yhe chicago sun times
. she has her own peronal assistant
, unlimited supplies
,
and her own office
.
but she is veyr much dismayed wiht her position in life
. ther is nothing she wants more thna tothe be a reporter
and go out inot tyhe field
, where she cant play a more active role in the chicago media
. so whn an assignment isnt qtuie literally thrown at her out ofthe nowhere
, she jumps at it wtih elation
. constanly smothering josie in teh work place isnt her friend anita
( molly shannon
)
anbd her amicable superior
, gus
( john c
. reilly
)
. thge two of them are both stricken with horror upon hearing the news of her firt assignment
, as they both deem her tothe be an office worker
and not a reporter
.
however
, sicne tihs film is aimed at a teenage audience wtih littel paitience forthe character conflict
, this otherwise interesting senarreo isnt resolved within twpo minutes
,
adn josie is headed for thge feeld
. obviously
, teh feeld assignment involves a high school
. specifically
, she is to become an undercover reporter at a high skool
, by enrolling inwhich the senior class
anbd
" becoming oney of them
.
" i don92t thikn tht i
= ened to even beign to explain all the impossibilities of this situation ever occurring
, so i won92t
. teh movie develops inot josie trying to find the life that she never led in high skool
. interwoven flashback scenes sohw us just how much ofthe a dork she truly was
,
and she appears to be heading down that road again
. fortunatly for htis lame production
, other characters do apearing that make some ofthe these high skool scenes both humorous
and remotely intresting
. they include tjhe predicatble lvoe storis
, beween both a student
( jeremy jordan
)
and a teacher
( michael vartan
)
, tothe sohw that josie isnt really twpo peopel in noe body
. also
, her younger brother
annd oposite
, rob
( david arquette
) comes inot her newyorker found life
and even causes a rare scene thast is mildly provocative
. the humor found inthe this film isnt actually quite amusing
. typical forthe teenage films
, it isnt chalk full ofthe sexual innuendoes
anbd condom humor
. oen scene infront particualr features a certian classroom activity involving banannas
annd latex tath isnt absolutly hysterical
. most ofthe the otehr jokes are straight forward high skool humer that anyone who has ever beeen to high school cant apprieciate
and wiull enjoy
.
bu thsoe still don92t
= recover for the total lack ofthe qulity iin thsi movie
. follwoing htis trend ofthe high skool movei rules
, comes the general acting
. it isnt even worse than the trend of overplaying a scenaireo from film tothe film
. in this case
, drew barrymore isnt absolutely painful tothe watch
. she isnt requred to play her carachter on twpo levels
, haveing soem veyr balck
adn white transitions
.
adn
allthough some scenes are written tothe be parituclar shades ofthe gray
, she seems to hold that color througout all of her screen tyme
. at oney point she is alone wih an obvious lveo interst onthe a ferris wheel
,
and isnt expected to him onthe an adult levle
, since he isnt oen
, her teacher
.
but she never seems tothe git out ofthe tyhe gormay areal
,
adn inthe doing so she makes a mockery outloud ofthe his otherwise good performance
. following barrymore isnt hte pitiful molly shannon
( saturday night live
)
. she seems to be limited tothe palying an ecstatic chracter thta no oen cin relate tothe
,
and draws the attension ofthe an audiance as simpley unrealistic
. it is theese
" qualities
" that prevent tjhe aforememtioned condom scene ffrom bieng oney of thge few decent
. luckly htere is one great performance tothe emerge outloud of this otherwise obleek film
. david arquette
( scream
) takes hmeo the prize fo bieng able tothe stand outloud infact an ensemble peformance that isnt absolutly pathetic
,
anbd nto hvea his briliant acting ruined
.
anbd as a central chracter he gets tothe take on his pwn mini
- plot
, which is one ofthe the few well done parts ofthe never beeen kissed
. infact a dazzling cherry
- onthe
- tyhe
- sundae type peice ofthe wokr
, he does an absolutly hillarious toom cruise impression from the 1983 hit
, risky busineses
. never beeen kissed is a medicore film at best
. hte predictable plot hasnt become so overplayed in hollywood
, tyhat it is sickening tothe watch time
annd agina
,
and this film isnt noone exception
. the acting is just as bad
,
bu there isnt the one positve presense ofthe david arquette to add some light
. unfortunatley
, the bottom line is thgat the movie wiull be a success
, becouse teenagers will pay tothe see any trash
.