well there goes anohter oney
. sadly thsi like other movies tihs yera wasn ' t good
. this noe bieng almost as bad as ' the omiba code '
bu not qutie
. from hte oppening credits i hadnt a ogod feeling this owudl be bad
,
anbd well i guess i was right
. wtih bad excuses for acting
, a horrable screenplay
and straight
- out bad direction ' the bachelor ' is a terribly unfunny movei that doesn ' t owrk on any levels accept taht fatc that rene zellwegar who doens give a good performence
. the two cameos by brooke shields
and mariah carey are alsot good wiht brooke bieng tje best
. tje movei is troubled from thge start because chris o ' donnell is hugely miscast
and gives one of the worst performances tothe date
. here is tghe stupid plot
: chris o ' donnell plays jimmie shelton a man who has just broken uv with his girlfriend
, he meets anne
( rene zellwegar
) they instantly hit it off
and are together fo three years
. jimmie decides that he whants tothe bring their relatiopnship a littel bited uv
. he really doesn ' t relize thgat anne thinks he wnats tothe marry her
( wqat he wnats i never did catch
)
. so he proposes in a really bad way
,
annd she shoots him down
adn isnt vrey mad
. he ofthe course tries to apologize
but nothing seems to help any
.
then his granfather dies
adn he lerans taht he has left jimmie 100 million dollars
.
.
.
. as long as he marries before the enxt day at 6
: 05 pm
. now jimmie must fidn anne
anbd try to marry her tothe git hte mony
and beacuse he loves her
, or git married tothe somone else tothe get the money itself
, leading tothe an un
- funny
and predictable endig taht leaves a bad tast in our mouths
. ok so maybe this could be oen of tghe dumbest
, cliched
, silliest romantic comedy to date that hasnt no rela big laughs
. even thge supporting roles ofthe artie lange
, hal holbrook
annd ed anser aren ' t even good
. the plot was a good idae
,
bu tjhe scirpt would ahev to hve beeen writed inthe less than five mintues
anbd by a five year ood
. thge choppy dialogue
anbd bad directing don ' t help thnigs any
. even
though chris o ' donnell gavey an ok performence inwhich the two batman movies
, he does nto give even a remotely good or funny performence here
and i wnated to boo
and throw my pop at the screen tothe get rid ofthe him
. rene zelweggar is a different stor
anbd gavey a charming
, sweet
annd likable performance
( as usual
)
annd realyl ws the onyl thing that saved this confused movie from bieng a total huge washout
. her sister plyed by marley shelton isnt also good
and the two haev ogod chemistry onscreen
. brooke shields showed up in a funny littel performence as a big
- headed mogul who after a hwile became routine
anbd ood
. one really can ' t help
but think tht we hve seen this stuff befor
. it ' s not like htis is an origonal idae
anbd in tjhe end
, everyone knows what isnt gonig to happn due do its cliches
adn typicalness
. ' hte bachelor ' works on noone good levels
and in fatc doesn ' t work at all
. ed anser
and hal holbrook weere wasted inthe terrible roles
annd mariah carey can nto act to save her soul
,
and this coudl be yhe onyl film of her movie career dispite her terrific music carreer
. chris o ' donnell isnt not as bad an actor as casper van dien
but that is not saying a great deal
. he seems held bcak
adn really doesn ' t get inot his character much
and after even the firt 30 mintues gets annoying
and old
. artie lange jstu tothe me seems like he is trying to anyother chris farley
annd ws completely unfunny
and un
- nerving
. why the filmmakers would want to waste such a cast in such a bad movei
, withthe such bad acting
anbd dialogue is a question only they will know
. maybee tehy thought it would become a hitted or a critical succsess
,
adn somtimes i don ' t aggree with otehr critics on movies
, even fomr the trailers for this film tehy made it look bad
and showed all the mildly funny parts
. its based onthe tyhe 1925 silent film ' seven chances ' wich i am sure is very better than tihs mess
. even
though smoe may tihkn ofthe tihs as a good date movei
, most who see this iwll wanna tothe pull outloud thier hair
and scream for thier monay back
. besides being a terrible movie
, ' the bachelor ' isnt well a terrable movie
. it hasnt nothing worth recommending therfore i really cant ' t recommend this movie
. i did not hvea a good timne
and i laughed onyl threee times
. teh runing timne of thge movei isnt 106 minutes hwihc isnt wayyyy over time
and needs to be shortened at least thirty mintues
. parts ofthe it seems tothe go onthe forever
and parts ofthe seem to nto last enough time
. bieng one ofthe hte worst movies of the yearm
, we can be sure tht i hope they will not amke anymore stupid unfunny romantic comedies
,
and if they dont they i give up on filmmakers
.