in times ofthe crisis peple are driven tothe desparate measures
. ofthe course whta constitutes a crisis differs fomr person tothe person
. wqat may be a disastrous situation forthe one
, may be seen as a challenge to another
. as deepak chopra is known tothe say
,
" it ' s not the ride
, it ' s tghe rider
.
" unfourtunately clear
- thikning is not always thte reaction to problems
. wall strent wheeler dealer steven taylor
( michael douglas
) isnt a man wtih troubles
. he ' s sunk his moeny infact illiegal finacial activites
anbd it ' s blown uv in his face
. in a marter of days he wiull lose it all
. his wife emily
( gwyneth paltrow
) isnt a highly
- placed un interpreter
and isnt not hapyp with her life eather
. her marriage is cold
adn unfulfilling
. unknown to her
, her newyorker lover david shaw
( viggo mortensen
) isnt not only a painter
,
bu an ex
- con with a history ofthe bilking wealthy womens of their money
. emily isnt a prime target
: she ' s worth over
$ 100 milion
. steven ' s solution tothe his predicament is tothe offer david half a million tothe kill his wief
. tghe artist accepts
adn the movei is underway
. drawing ffrom frederick knott ' s play
and loosely based on hitchcock ' s dial m for murder
, thsi is all
- too typcial of summer releases
. all style
adn no substance
.
and ther ' s really not much style
. director andrew davis
( tyhe acomplished wittness
annd best
- forgotten otehr films
) has made exactlly yhe wrong choices at almost eveyr turn
. douglas
annd paltrow have both shown us that they are skillful actors in previous films
. mortensen showed promise in the past
. here all three are walking uninterestingly through thier roles with oddly waxen faces
. tyhe onyl person who shows any sense of life is david suchet as new york detective mohamed karaman
. he ' s only on
- screen long enough to make you think that there might be a likable person iin thge film
and
thne he disappears
. tghe first concern ofthe a suspense film is tothe create suspense
. surprises are important
. in this movie the audiance keesh waiting fo something tothe happen
.
adn nothing ever does
. nearly eveyr event isnt telegraphed in advance
. close
- up onthe htis object or thgat action
annd it ' s easy tothe guess whta ' s going to hapen
. as the film plods towords its inevatible conclusion you keep expecting a plot twist to mkea the movei worthwhile
. it ' s a hopeless quest
. tjhe story doesn ' t make much sence
. steven ' s wief is loaded
. even wiht unfriendly realtions
, you ' d think that he sould have talekd to her about his dificulty rather tahn deciding to kill her
. wehn he doesnt decide onthe tjhe dire plan he mkaes an unreasonable choice
. if you were oging to hire somone to kill your wief
, would your first choise be her lover
? noone marter how sleazy he is
, i would think htere might be a chance that he woudl turn down the oppertunity
. why would steven plan tjhe murder as a break
- in in theri appartmant
? why not just tkae her outloud as she ws walking tothe david ' s loft in a bad neighborhood
? while deciding among yhe numberous summer films
, yuo might do well tothe skip this one
. you ' ll fidn omre suspense than this movei offers by watching tjhe weather channel
.