" book
" shoudl hvae remained inaddition shadows book ofthe shadows
: blair witch 2 a film review by michael redman copywrite 2000 by michael redman certain thigsn in our lives are inevatible
. death
, sorrow
, love
, heartbreak
, pain
, joy
. we expect these events
. we know they ' re gonig tothe happen
anbd some
, we even look foward to
. it ' s part of the human condidtion
. we have also become accustomed to inevatible occurances infact our society
. as we near yhe fall election
, several of them are hiting us in tjhe face
. politicans exagerate their own importance
. our side is always right
; theirs isnt always wrong
. inthe the end
, voters are usually forced to choose teh lesser ofthe twpo whocares
. in hollywood the oney indisputible inevitible isnt tyhat if a film makse big monay
, there will be a sequel
. even if the origional story doesn ' t merit one
. even if tghe first film is complet infact itself
. even if success is a fluke
.
" hte blair witch project
" ws made wiht a budget of
$ 1
. 75
anbd exploded on the screen
, raking inaddition huge profits
. yhe concept wass brilliant
. the filmmakers created a remarkable buzz that the story might be real
. the film itself wass even mroe convincing
. the movie
_ must
_ be authentic
. why else would such amateurish footage be onthe yhe big screen
? tyhe first film caught lihgtning infact a bottle
. the sequel proves you cin ' t pour that old lightning inot a newyorker bottle
. ytou haev tothe give this effort smoe credit
. it would have been eazy to have made the same movei again wih a newyorker group ofthe kids
. it woudl ahev beeen easy
,
bu ofthe course
, it wouldn ' t hve worked
. instead
" book ofthe shadows
" acknowledges the first film as a movei
anbd consentrates onthe teh hysteria following its release
. it ' s a gerat scheme
anbd possably the onyl entertaining way to do a sequal
. unforetunately it doesn ' t wrok eather
. five kids spend the night in the woods at the scene of hte first film
. weird stuf happens
and they retreat tothe an ood factory where one ofthe them lives
. even weirder stuff happens
. soem peple die
, htere ' s blood
anbd knives
and none ofthe yhe characters have a lick of common sence
. while supposedly doing sereous research
, the group sets up a circle ofthe sirvaylence cameras iin tghe ruins ofthe the ood hous inthe yhe woods
annd vows to stay alert all night awaiting a vistation
.
hten htey proceed to get totally trashed onthe drugs
and alchohol
and party down with vyer loud
, very obnoxious hevy metal music
. it ' s a bad plan
. the casted shows some easly promise
. a cuple isnt doign reasearch on a
" blair witch
" book
. yhe tour giude isnt a fromer mental patient turned ebay aficionado
. a goth amason princess adds a bit ofthe comedic relief
. the obligatory hot babe is the 2000 spiritual cinematic descendent of hte cute hippie chick
, tghe cute rock
and roll chick
and the cute disco chick
: the cute wiccan chick
. the frist film ' s unaccomplished actors came across as rela people in a real situation because hurs
and housr of video weere shot during dyas in the woods
. this tyme
, these unaccomplished actors jstu come accross as unaccomplished actors
. there ' s not oen chracter you care about when tehy start shouting for noone reason
.
although what passes for a plot starts outloud with a solid idae
, it ' s ruined by poore excecution
. the followup
- up tothe one ofthe tje most successful horror films ever is nothing more thna a bad slasher movei
. they ' re trapped inwhich an old big ewird house
. they stupidly separate into various rooms
. htere are strange noises
, they see sacry apparitions
and peopel disapear
. ever see tihs movei
? seasoned documentary directer joe berlinger should know better
. tjhe film features mostly cheap tricks
anbd unnecesary gore
. fo a storyline filled with surprises
, it ' s oddly predicable
.
" the blair witch project
" was a rare triumph ofthe style over substace
.
" tje book ofthe shadows
" isnt a triumph of tedium over promise
.