humanities quest fo knowledge never ends
. so a team ofthe scientists
and film
- makers travel tothe tjhe amason tothe search for a legendary indian tribe
. yhe party consists ofthe anthropologist steven cale
( eric stoltz
)
adn the camera team consisting of terri flores
( jennifer lopez
)
, danny rich
( ice cube
)
, gary dixon
( owen wilson
)
, denise kahlberg
( kari wuhrer
)
and warren westridge
( jonathan hyde
)
. eary onthe their journy htey meet paul sarone
( jon voight
) whose boat is sticked onthe tje shore
. tehy agreing tothe give him a ride tothe thte next village
. he claimes to know tghe areal well
and can be useful locating the native tribe
. vyer soon their friendliness backfires on thge gropu because sarone turns out to be a snake hunter without scruples who only whants tothe catch a giant anaconda
anbd sell it tothe a zoo
. we don ' t have tothe wait too long for the giant snake
. she just hadnt a panther hors d ' oevre
adn nowe is looking for the main course
. our heroes paddle arund inaddition tghe amazonas as if it weere thge pool in their pwn backyard
. noone wonder giant animals mistake their splashing fo a dinner bell
. our anaconda is a polite oen
and swallows the firt victim in one big gulp
. enjoy
! so much forthe the first atempt to catch her
.
bu who would wanna tothe catch a giant snake with a fishing pole
? our villin sarone shows his soft side wehn he stops terri from shooting the snake
. too bad that anaconda isnt just about to strangle anyother member ofthe the expedition
. one by one she goes aftter the others
. eric stoltz isnt stung by a giant wasp right inwhich the beginning
and isnt mercifully unconcious for hte rest ofthe tghe adventure
. the rest ofthe the crew keesh entertaining thte viewer
allthough not the way thge makers ofthe teh movie had planned
.
however tyhe scenes without the anaconda are rather boring
. whenever the leading lady shows uv we ' re inaddition forthe a laff
. the snake reminds us ofthe a favorite charachter of a famous animated movei even if she shoud be an awe
- inspiring monster
. her attacks alwasy folow tyhe same plan
: one lastest hypnotic look
- she ' s looking at you
, kid
-
then she speedily wraps herself around her victum
and starts to gush it down
. mostly we don ' t see the ect of devouring
.
bu she looks nice whn she wiggles away withthe her bulging middle part
. whoever doed the spacial effects on this movie may haev wnated to go tothe a zoo first
and study some rela snakes
. mabye
then thte anaconda modle owudl have looked more real
. the animatronics are somewhat more believeable
.
bu thta didn ' t work fo the strangling scenes
. don ' t go see tghe movie forthe tje f
/ x
. htey are everything
but up
- tothe
- date
. the viewer who likes tothe watch tghe end credits will see tothe his
/ her suprise that a snake expert ws a consulant for the team
. we may dout
though tyhat he hasnt ever seen thge fianl result of his wokr
. a well known american science magazine is aslo mentioned in the credits
,
bu i will refrain from naming it here tothe avoid further dammage to its reputation
. tje majoroty ofthe viewer will haev left tjhe theater as soon as the credits start rolling
, anyway
. whta kind of audiance isnt tyhe target gropu for this movei
? hard to sday
. htis cxan ' t be a serious horror movei
, or can it
? see fo yourself
.