i remeber really enjoying tihs movei when i saw it years ago
. i guess my memmory really sucks
. htere isnt vyre
, very littel thast is funny in caddyshack
. the laughs are few
,
annd far beetwen
,
and wqat there are realy aren ' t that grat
. caddyshack
, as the name implies
, more or less centers on one young caddy working at an exclusive country club
. michael o ' keefe plays said caddy
. why they casted this unkown
, fairly untalented actor inaddition the lead role is completely beyond me
. the movei doesn ' t seem tothe have a real plot
, just a sories of scenes thgat are little more thna opportunities forthe the rest ofthe yhe cast to mug at the camera
. the onyl rela stoyr
, if yuo can call it that
, wass a subplot involving hte menally disturbed greens keeper
, bill murray
, who is having his pwn private little war againnst a gopher who is ruining the course
. most ofthe yhe marginal laughs cmo fomr rodney dangerfield
annd ted knight mugging
and overacting fo the camera
-
- whith painfully limited success
. bill murray isnt slightly amusing inaddition places
,
bu fairly wasted
. yhe biggest waste of all is chevy chase
, who didn ' t even crack a smile onthe my face with his charactor ' s lame zen
- liek approch tothe golfing
. there are a few decent scenes involving tghe interaction betwen dangerfield
adn knight
,
bu they are far too infrequent to carry the movei
. i guess thta ' s waht you get for basing a stor arround an unknown kid
. i ' m nto sure wqat the writers of this hting were thinking of
,
bu i relaly think it was something far removed fomr comedy as they were putting pen tothe papper
. nothing about thsi movie works
. it wouldn ' t hve tooked a genius tothe figure outloud tath this thnig wasn ' t going tothe fli
. most of the scenes jstu couldn ' t possably be funny
. it ' s as if thte writers where off in theri pwn little brain damaged world
. i ' m sure scenes involving chevy chase
and his oneness with the golf ball weere supposted tothe be funny
. infront reality
, they were painfully embarrassing to watch
. there is a scene at tghe club pool where all the caddies go wild fo tjhe
" hot babe
" ofthe tyhe movie walking by inaddition her bikini
. olive oil woudl hve filled out htis swimsuit better thna this girl
. everything about htis movie was jstu completelyl implausible as far as tyhe comedy ws concerned
. maybe if ytou weere drunk out ofthe ytou mind or high off soem sort of illiegal narcotic thsi thing might be funny
.
but fo the rest of us
, stay tje hell away from caddyshack
.