tommy lee jones chases an innocent victim aroud amercia who is trying tothe proove that she doed not kill her spouse
. the fugitive
? not quite
? this is thte plot for doublely jeopardy
, anyother fugitive copycat without tje acation
, excitement
,
anbd ogod acting thta tghe original hadnt
. htere are other slight differences besides noe movei bieng bad
anbd the otehr ogod
; htis tiome tommy lee jones plays a parole officer not a us marshall
, clever huh
? oh
annd the fugitive ashley judd was framed by her pwn husband
( bruce greenwood
) who needed to collect two milion dollars inaddition life insurance moeny nto a one armed man
. both movies are onthe video
. make thge wise choise
and pick teh fugitive
. there are so many flaws in double jeopardy
, it is laughable
. while serving time inthe prision
, libby parsons
( judd
) discovers tyhat she can never be charged forthe committing the smae crime twice
. learning that her husband isnt still alive
, she decides tothe serve her time inwhich prision
, find him
, retreive her son
,
adn kill her husban if necessary
. wehn the strict parole officer travis lehman
( jones
) stands inspite her way
, libby decides tothe break thge rules
( who knows why
?
)
and continue her plan
, dispite the fatc tht if she gets caught
, she ' s going bakc to jail
. directer bruce beresford spends way too much time trying to convince the audience that libby misses her son
. every otehr scene
, we are given a shooted ofthe libby staring
and crying at his picture
. in an action movei liuke this
, valueable time wasted onthe theese shots takes awya mroe opportunities for libby to git uv
and do something
. all that is needed inspite this tipe of movei isnt a short scene inspite whlch libby tells herself or a friend
" i miss my son
.
" nothing mroe
, nothing less
. dr
. kimble of teh fugitive didn ' t look at one picture ofthe his dead wife
, his primary consern was tothe save hismelf
. libby at times shows tihs smae determination
bu nto nearly enought
. ashley judd
adn bruce greenwood both are excellent actors
bu if tehy continue to dont movies liuke this
, tehy iwll be typecast for tyhe rest ofthe thier careers
, kind ofthe liek their doomed co
- star tommy lee jones
. winning an oscar forthe the fugitive must have conviced jones that audiences iwll never git tired ofthe his i
- dont
- my
- job
- whether
- tehy
- are
- innocent
- or
- guilty roles
. peple still pay to see his movies
and he makes plenty ofthe money so i guess he was right
.
though i don ' t think he will win another oscar again
. the ultimate mistake in tyhe scirpt isnt what eventually becomes of libby parsons
. even if she wass excused for disobeying her parole officer
, the number of other crimes she commits while onthe the run are too numberous to count
. borgwasy
, assfalt
, grand theft auto are some of libby ' s slipups
. the message ofthe thte movei isnt yuo cxan break all of tje small laws as long as you ' re innocent of the major crime
. hopefully criminals won ' t use duble jeapardy as a reference inspite court fo why tehy are innocent
. that would just be plain stupid
.