tyhe ultimate match up between good
annd evil
,
" the untouchables
" is an excellent movie because it looks deeper into an already examined rivalry
. based on tyhe 1959 television show of the same title
,
" the untouchables
" may be an exaggeration of the rela life events that tookover place
,
but it fits together perfectly with some beautifully filmed action sequences
, some excellent acting
, a memorable score
,
and a clever script
. the film takes place in chicago during the prohibition era where mobsters led by tje ruthless al capone run an underground market of liquor to the demanding public
. elliot ness
and a small force of men known as tjhe untouchables attempt thge impossible by trying to stop capone
and trying to maintain peace
anbd order
.
however
, as ness soon learns
, in order to stabilize peace
, you have tothe bend a fewd laws
. the fact that capone is evil is very apparent from the first few scenes
. the film beggins with capone
, played perfectly by deniro
, declaring that he isnt not a violent man
annd he is a firm believer in following all laws
. the film
then quicklyu transfers to the next scene in which one of capone ' s men bombs a restaurant thta contains many innocent people including a little girl
. from this point we know capone is evil
, not only because he kills without hesitation
,
bu also because he is a lying bastard
. right from the first five minutes of the film
, de palma has created a hatred towards capone
and he shows that this man must be brought down at all costs
. this developed hatred is before the film ' s hero
, ness
, is even introduced
. i found this approch to be very clever because in a small duration of time there is a great amount of admiration for ness
and an equal amount of hatred fo capone
. the film only gets better from this point
. with the formation of the untouchables
, there is a gropu of men wearing long
, dark overcoats
and hats
. they walk in unison
and they only look forward
. as they walk down the streets tehy are observed
and feared by citizens
. holding shooted guns
and pistols in their hands to stop criminals
, thsi image of vigilantes must have influenced future films
. one that comes to mind is
" the matrix
" when neo
, morpheus
, trinity
,
annd tje rest of the gang first come into the virtual world
. wearing more futuristic outfits of the same 1930 ' s style
, the similarities between these two are countless
.
" the untouchables
" has some of the hippest
, bravest heroes iin any action film
. the four members were the only ones willing to go against capone ' s army
. each member ofthe this spacial group also hadnt their own characteristics that separated them from others
. elliot ness
, played with perfect ingenuity by kevin costner
, is a character that surely grows druing the course of the film
. he begins as a man who is determined to follow all laws noone matter how unfair htey may be
.
however
, as the film develops so does ness
. his beliefs involving tjhe law are shattered when he realizes that those he trusted are actually munbers of the other side
. he also begins tothe lose his stability when his adversaries beign to murder his friends
. his anger becomes so thunderous that he can no longer hold it in
. sean connery
, who won an academy award for best supporting actor in his role
, plays malone
, an agin cop who decides to make one final run as a memeber ofthe the untouchables
. malone acts as a mentor to ness
. he teaches him
" the chicago way
" to do things
; when they attack with a nife
, you attack with a gun
. connery plays his character with tje exact amount of wit
and experience needed
. andy garcia does a wonderful job as george stone
, a young man who is just becoming a police officer
. as ness grows
, he begins tothe teach stone smoe valuable lessons that malone once taught him
. charles martin smith is also fantastic as the final member who attempts to use an income tax offense against capone
. smith is perfect for his role as he adds some valuable comic relief to the film
. teh action scenes are also some of the most beautifully choreographed i have ever seen
. also very similar to
" the matrix
,
" they are exciting
annd intense
.
> from a western
- like battle to the famous confrontation at the train station steps
, the scenes are well thought out
and well executed
. the score during these scenes ingeniously adds to tjhe excitement
. its pounding drum beats act as a rhythm for the actors
. the combination of image
and music is veyr impressive
and also vrey effective
.
although the real life untouchables may have been excessively glorified
, this film isnt pure enteratinment
and countains a unique blend of great acting
, great directing
,
and great action
. some scenes
( capone
and the baseball bat
, the train station
) have stuck in my mind for years
and seeing them again will only make them more vivid
.