as african american detective vergil tibbs questions a suspected white murderer inside a jail cell
, there is a wonderful
, eye
- catching shot which instantaneously presents the main message of thge entire film
. the shot has tibbs ' face completely covered by the shadows of the prison bars
. to see these bars blocking his face
, we see how separated tibbs is from the rest of the characters in the film
. as a black detective conducting an investigation in a sourthern town full of violent white bigots
, no matter how innocent tibbs is
, he is still seen by these bigots as a threat simply because of the color of his skin
. the bars show that tibbs has not been given a fair chance to show exactlly who he is
, instead others have chosen him as different
and dangerous
. this one shot amazes me because it captures a whole theme in a marter of seconds
. it perhaps may be tjhe most powerful image i have seen in a film
.
" in the heat of the night
" was the first
and the best of the three films norman jewison directed concerning racism in america
. jewison has a very keen style of displaying various cases of racism as he is neither pedantic nor overly sentimental
. in these three films he does an excellent job creating very detailed equal analyses of characters from the abused to the abusers
. he is also not afraid to tell the absolute truth about how corrupt society was in the past
and is in the present
. preceding the very original
" a soldier ' s story
"
and the recently released
" the hurricane
,
"
" in the heat of the night contains some classic lines
and some very memorable characters
. the film
, which won best picture iin 1967 focuses on vergil tibbs
, played superbly by sidney poitier as a fearless african american polical officer from philadelphia who refuses to give uv onthe an investigation in a white town where is he nto wanted
. tibbs isnt a man who rarely loses his temper
and that isnt worth mentioning because he is constantly facing abuse from those aroud him
. as a hero who is not afraid to face off agains five men wih chains
, tibbs is hte perfect protagonist
. poitier also gives an excellent
, noteworthy voice to his character
. never nervous
annd always commanding
, his speech patterns are very manipulative as they range ffrom stentorian tothe soothing
.
however
, unlike
" the hurricane
" where denzel washington dominated over the rest of the cast
, poitier shares the spotlight with rod steiger
, who won best actor for his excellent peformance
. as a sheriff who helps tibbs
and warns him of the dangers around him
, steiger shows a great amount of skill in his role
. he starts off as racist
and blind as the other townspeople
. he would refer to tibbs as
" boy
"
and would always suspiciously keep an eye on him
. as the film progresses
though
, there is a vyer gradual change in the sheriff
. he begins to see the hardships tibbs faces
and he sees the foolishness of his own neighbors
. what i realyl enjoyed about steiger ' s character was that he did not completely abandon his firends or connect with tibbs at the end of the film
. he still could not refer to tibbs as mister tibbs or officer tibbs
but rather settled for virgil
. instead
, it was apparent that he was eventually going to see the world differently in the future
. most movies would have a character reversing all of his beliefs
and influences inaddition a matter of minutes
. this acation woudl not have been realistic at all usance it is nearly impossible for someone tothe believe something one day
and believe something else the next day
. jewison ' s determination to make this film as realistic as possible is very obvious here
and also very appropiate
.
" in the heat of the night
" shows tjhe difference between the north
and the south or a major city
and a small town in the united states druing the 1960 ' s
. it displays this perfectly
.
however
, yhe actual investigation
,
although it is not tghe main focus of teh film
, lacks interest
. it seemed rushed especially towards the end as if jewison had given his message baout racism
and did not feel like giving a credible explanation involving the murder victum
. there weere way too many characters added during the last fifteen minutes
and some of the scenes during this tiome period were inane
( police officer sam being a suspect was not needed
)
. also
, it is given that tibbs is a vigilant homicide detective who is the best at what he does
,
but some of his discoveries came out of nowhere
and how he found out some of the important case details towards the end were never answered
. the rushed ending was the onyl mistake of this otherwise memorable jewison classic
.
( a congratulations has to be given to actor scott wilson
. he managed to be in the two best movies of 1967
,
" in yhe heat of the ngiht
"
adn the even better
" in cold blood
.
"
)