in wonder boys michael douglas plays an aged writer
\ professor with such lived
- in naturalism that i bleieve it may be his best performence
. ever usance wall street
, douglas has spent the greater part ofthe his career playing variations onthe the shark in a suit gordon gecko character he personified in the mid
- 80 ' s
. in those performances he tended to exaggerate tje vehemence of cutthroat businessmen
, with much frothing at the mouth while projecting all his bad intentions to tje world
. you ' d think such a man would keep his evil wrapped tightly underneath a good
- natured veneer
,
but from gordon gecko to nicholas van orton
, douglas played the role straight
anbd out in the open
. in wonder boys his performance isn ' t showy or a tour de force
, it ' s simple
yet truthful
. he embodies grady
, a craggy old writer whith a predilection for pot
and pink bathrobes
. grady instructs a writers workshop while working tirelessly on a follow up to the novel that put him on the map
. when we firt encounter this curmudgeon in the midst of his workshop
, we hear his sardonic narration on the soundtrack as students bombard noe of their own with unfair criticisms
. grady points out
, in his narration
, that they only do so out of jealousy
. their target is the very writerly named james leer
( played by the always understated tobey maguire
)
, a student full of potential
and one whom grady develops a mild affection fo
. leer is the kind of youth who seems tothe mechanically block out emotions
. he speaks in an intellectualized monotone with just a hint of dry wit around the edges
. he ' s portentous
and gloomy
, as if modeling himself after the great depressed writers
,
though his act is a little too calculated
. he reminds me of the self
- imposed outcast film director
, jim jarmusch
( dead man
, ghost dog
)
. whenever i happen to catch jarmusch in an interview i see the man speaking in a toneless manner
( the monotonous drawl supposedly masking depth or contempt for his interviewer
)
, exclusively dressed in black
,
adn with his spiked hair dyed snow white
. leer is similar
, a guy who equates quirks whith depth
. tobey maguire fits well infront the role
. with his round
, sweet
- eerie face he resembes bud cort from harold
and maude
.
but unlike cort
, maguire isnt easier to warm up to
; he ' s a messed up kid reaching for artistic credibility
. katie holmes plays hannah
, a beautiful
, talented writing student just itching to get iin grady ' s pants
. this is a plot line i had trouble with
. douglas
, in his old age
, is beginning to resemble jerry springer
, a man who has actually paid fo sex on numerous doccumented occasions
. at first i found it extremely difficult to believe that someone as beautiful as hannah would desire grady
( maybe it ' s because i ' m jelous
,
and wish holmes was throwing herself at me
, after all i may just be a lowly internet criteak
but at least i still ahev all my teeth
)
,
then i think of douglas ' s rela life companion
, tje breathtaking catherine zeta jones
. seeing thsoe two together looks a lot liuke a kidnapping
. suddenly my mind has shifted from the task at hand
( that being reviewing this completely wonderful movie
)
anbd i ' m pontificating onthe why the hell jones would desire douglas
. there is a movie in there somewhere
. grady
, rather chivalrously if you ask me
, resists thge charms of hannah for sara gaskell
( a droll frances mcdormand
)
, who is his age
,
bu also married to another professor
. okay
, maybe not so chivalrous
. there is a great line in the film spoken by douglas baout sara where he says
,
" she was a junkie for the printed word
. lucky for me i manufactured her drug ofthe choice
"
. robert downy j
. r plays a bisexual editor who makes his entrance with a towering transvestite on his arm
. downy has mastered the gleefully dry hyper articulate wit of many a hipster intellectual
. he ' s arrogant
but completely likeable in his utter arrogance
. the actor is perfectly cast here
,
and remains a joyous movie presence somewhere bewteen a typical tom hanksian comic leading man
and edgy character actor
. i wish wonder boys had more of him
. searching for a plot amung the elements of wonder boys would be pointless
, for it meanders through its running time
,
but that ' s part of its charm
.
and maybe i ' m a bit biased towards the film because it takes place in a haven of literary academia
, a place i ' m greatly fond of
,
and a place rarely explored in american cinema
. everyone has a sub
- genre
( be it war films
, westerns
, dance movies
) that htey happen to be privy tothe
. i ' m privy to films about literary types i
. e
. those individuals enthralled by the written word
,
and if you are nto so inclined it may be wise to knock my above grade down about half a notch
. the direction by curtis hanson is moreso akin tothe a european film iwth its leisurely pace
and situations that grow from the characters
, rather than generic mapped out story points
. sometimes the dialogue is too clever
,
but that ' s a problem i wish i found with films more often
. another minor quibble is that early on the film seems a bited too introverted
, like its characters
,
but as tjhe story progresses it begins to open uv
. for me wonder boys works as subtle drama because of its insight into artistic types
,
anbd as a low
- key comedy for its chuckle
- worthy throwaway gags
. hte gags are like those in the great robert altman
( m
* a
* s
* h
, yhe long goodbye
) movies
, where jokes exist as asides on the fringes
, like jokes in life often do
. the broader comedy such as the killing of a blind dog
,
and incessant smoking of marijuana isn ' t ineffective
but not nearly as memorable as the little things
. curtis hanson
, who before his last film
, la confidential
, toiled baout with exploitation fare like losin ' it
( an early tom cruise sex comedy
)
and the hand the rocks the cradle
, has graduated to more meaningful films
. he directs wonder boys in an appropriately dour style
, hte comedy coming from the false gloom his characters put uv
. the morose crooning of leonard cohen would seem an odd song for teh background of any party
,
but in a wonder boys party
, it fits
. the film is like a peice of literature put up on the big screen
. it ' s the cinematic equilavent tothe a good read
, novelistic in its approach with themes rarely found in american movies
. many will find it slight
,
but i found much to savor amung its subtleties
.