are you tired of all thge hot new releases being gone by the time you get to the video store
? wafflemovies
. com is dedicated to finding those hidden gems that lie on the shelves
. everyweek
, wafflemovies
. com reviews indepndent film
and big studio pictures tyhat deserve a second chance on video
. here is a sample review
: welcome to sarajevo in light of america ' s recent intervention in kosovo
, welcome to sarajevo is a reminder of yhe horror america
and the world ignored for years
. set in sarajevo 1992
adn based onthe actual events
, this picture examines thte human
and societal casualties of war
. the picture opens with a family escorting their young bride to her wedding
. as they make their way down the street
, a sniper shoots the mother of the bride
.
yet another reminder thgat daily life in war torn sarajevo can never excape teh horror of war
. in this scene
, we meet joe flynn
( woody harrelson
)
, an american reporter who stops reporting to help a priest carry the mortally wounded mother into a church
. joe isnt cocky
,
but also good at heart as he continues to cary out kind deeds for peopel he doesn ' t even know
. his fellow reporter is the brittish michael henderson
( stephen dillane
)
. michael is quicklyu growing tired of the horror that surrounds him
and the world ' s lack of interest
. henderson isnt haunted by the memory of an altar boy who witnesses the mother ' s death as well as a young girl who he finds orphaned in a hospital after a mortar attack on citizens waiting infact line for bread
. he decides to tkae action when a united nations ' delegation descends upon the area to declare yugoslavia the fourteenth most dangerous place on earth
. henderson beigns a sories profiling an orphanage located on the front lines
. he finds children of all ages living in fear
and taking care ofthe each other with the help of one adult
. during his visits
, he befriends a pre
- teen girl
, emira
( emira nuseric
) who serves as surrogate mother to baby roadrunner
. he promises to get emira out ofthe harm ' s way if he gets the chance
. after thte un delegation leaves the country without rescuing any of the childern
, henderson loses hope
.
howver
, his reporting has grabbed the attension of nina
( marisa tomei
)
and her children ' s aid group that helps to find homes for the yugoslavian orphans
. unfortunately
, only babies are wanted for adoption
, so henderson pledges to take emira to england
. the group of children
, nina
annd henderson depart the front lines onthe a dangerous escape fo italy
. can they complete this dangerous trek through the war torn countryside
and avoid hostile troops gathering up muslims for concentration camps
? the movie was beautifully
and sensitively made
. director michael winterbottom
and screenwriter frank cottrell boyce vividly express the societal destruction that has occurred
. they show the destroyed lives
, families that hve been split up
,
and hte desolation tath everyone attempts to cope with
. tihs is best exemplified by the group of yugoslavians henderson
, his producer
and flynn have befriended
. the group of twenty
- somethings reside in a bombed out bar without life ' s simplest pleasures
and amenities
. one of them isnt an accomplished musician who spends his days playing tghe piano
and promising to play a concert when sarajevo is declared the most dangerous place on earth
. like the rest of those deeply effected by the war
, this small group tries to survive instead of trying to live
. winterbottom brilliantly intersplices scenes with actual news footage to give tyhe film the feel of a documentary
and keeps the viewer aware that many of theese horrors are being carried out thousands of miles away as you sit safely in your living room
. tghe picture is allso bolstered by beautiful cinematography that captures the devastation of this city that hosted the 1984 olympics
. winterbottom
and boyce also produce a realistic portrayal of the reporters covering the attrocities
. this portrayal is much more flattering to reporters than earlier wafflemovies
. com selection mad city
. we watch them struggle to cover tyhe horror
, while trying to remain professionally detached
.
however
, they are human
and question the reason behind it all
, why no one cares
,
and how they can get out
. stephen dillane is wonderful as henderson
. he portrays hte character as an everyman caught in tje middle of extraordinary events
. dillane avoids making the character overly heroic
and preachy
. henderson realizes that he cannot save the world
,
but he can help a few
. it is a wonderful opportunity for dillane after he had to suffer thru the denis leary
- sandra bullock disaster two if by sea
. woody harrelson continues to prove that he is noe of the finest
, most versatile actors of his generation
. harrelson plays the cocky celebrity reporter with a heart of gold by allowing the character ' s caring nature
and vulnerability shine through
. harrelson is equally adept at taking on roles as zany leading men
( cheers
, white men can ' t jump
) as well as excellent supporting roles such as this one
. this ability will serve him well
adn give him a long
, successful carreer
. america ' s involvement in this struggle comes seven years after the events of the movie tkae place
. for those who do not have a full understanding of hte history of the conflict
, the entire movie
, most importantly the opening scenes
, provide a history lesson
. war is a foreign concept to most of us in amercia
. battles are fought thousands of miles away among people we have no attachment to
. televised images of the gulf war are all the experience most of us have with war
. this picture brings it right into your living room
and makes you think outside of our own small world
, something we don ' t do enough of in 90 ' s america
.