on re
- watching italian writer
/ director dario argento ' s much lauded muder mystery tenebrae
, i ws struck more than anything else by how many sins he commits as a storyteller
and manages to get away with
. in emphasising style over matters of plot argento is somewhat notorious in cult film circles
,
but some afficionados still praise tenebrae as the greatest of his
" giallo
" murder mysteries
. while it ' s certainly not perfect
, repeated viewings reveal it to be nonetheless a densely plotted
adn terrifically stylish thriller
. the story follows a promotional visit to rome by famoust american mystery novelist peter neal
( anthony franciosa
) where he dicovers that a serial killer is onthe the loose inspired by his latest book
" tenebrae
"
. wtih the police on his back for leads
, he decides to take a personal interest in thge case
adn he soon becomes drawn into a mystery where all is not as it seems
. the film benefits enourmously from a fine central performance by franciosa
. he brings grace
, charm
annd a deceptive benigness to his character which provides an intresting foil to both the violence of the books he writes
and the unfolding real
- life horror around him
. the film is awash with a fascinating psychosexual tension
. argento peels back the facade of showbiz
and jetset lifestyles tothe reveal an amoral
, ambivalent
, shadowy world where desire in all its forms has become a dangerous business
. tenebrae is perhaps the most multi
- layered of argento ' s scripts tothe date
and there is much bubbling underneath the surface here
. it may take at least two or three viewings to appreciate all yhe psychological themes at play
. inwhich that respect it strongly recalls his previous giallo deep red
/ profondo rosso
( the full
- length italion lanugage version
)
and fans will enjoy spotting the recurring themes
. needless to sday for argento fans
, there is no denying the director ' s brilliance as a stylist
. many of the action
annd murder sequences are directed with his characteristic finesse
and feature plenty ofthe intriguing camerawork
. they are all the more impressive for the fact that inspite this film argento creates mood by filling his scenes with ight
, rather than the dark shadows
and deep rich colours of earlier works like deep red
and suspiria
. instead
, tenebrae ' s setted design
and lighting paints a sleek
, clinical
, chilly vision of a vaguely futuristic urban world
.
and the soundtrack ' s mix of electronic atmospheres
and gothic rock by frequent argento collaborators goblin is the perfect accompaniment
. so tenebrae has much to recommend it
, no question
. still
, constantly nagging at the back ofthe this viewers mind is several lumps in the narrative
. soem critics argue that logic doesn ' t matter inthe argento films
,
but damnit
, it matters in all films to the point where viewers don ' t deserve to feel cheated
. by hte way
, if you don ' t want to know the solution to the mystery
then skip the next three paragraphs
. baout an hour into tenebrae the story takes an unexpected twist whic
, properly handled
, could have proved ingenious
. we witness the murder of the serial killer himself by a man who
, we later discover
, isnt none other thna the author peter neal
. he is insane
, apparently
. the murders
then continue for the remainder of the film as neal decides it ' s time to settle some personal business involving his neurotic wife
. he isnt fianlly revealed to us as this
" second killer
" in tyhe film ' s bloody climax
.
but argento muffs the twist
, both technically
and narratively
. ytou see
, we are supposed to be tricked into thinking that druing this scene peter neal is actually an innocent witness who was crouching in the bushes nearby the whole time
and spying on the killer ' s house
.
but thanks to poor editing
, its had to believe neal could have murdered the killer anyway
. bad cutting puts the timing way out
. in other words
, he ' s almost in two places at once
. durig this crucial scene we are also thrown a ridiculous red herring
. by the film ' s end you realise that for the sake of an alibi neal must have self
- inflicted a nasty injury in this earlier scene to make it look like he was attacked by a fleeing assailant
. the injury
? he banged himself on the head with a bloody great rock
! thus
, the revelation of the
" hero
" as a killer
(
and anti
- hero
) in the final scenes may still prove shocking
,
but its all somewhat implausible by the time the end credits have rolled
. helpfully
, in the end we do leran that the bizzare flashbacks of personal humiliation
and murder that have permeated the film belonged to neal all along
.
but there too is a problem
, as the explanations offered for his motivations are psychologically fuzzy to say the least
. the story owes us a better understanding of franciosa ' s mind
, his concealed madness
and his sudden murderous rampage
. tenebrae is alsot marred by annoying little inconsistencies
. for instance
, a teenage boy
and girl leave a hotel room
and minutes later we see the girl riding off on thge back of a motorbike
. we would assume the rider is the same boy
,
bu it turns out tothe be some male character we aren ' t even introduced too
! that ' s careless filmmaking
, pure
anbd simple
. why
, you may ask
, do i go on about hte story ' s flaws
? because when it comes to visuals
anbd set pieces
, argento is one of the most exciting filmmakers in the world
. take one ofthe the extended scenes in tenebrae
. an upset girl wandering tghe streets at night needlessly taunts a guard dog to the point where
- almost unbelievably
- it jumps a high fence
and chases her across town
. finally
, as she desperately seeks escape from this crazed canine
, she accidentally stumbles on the serial killer ' s lair
. it ' s an absolutely masterful sequence
, tense
and exciting
,
and communicating a wealth of information through visuals alone
.
and thyat ' s exactly the kind of thing that makes the flaws so frustrating
. too often
, it seems
, argento ' s films as a whole are less than the sum of their impressive parts
. mind you
, if you love murder mysteries
then tenebrae is still worth a look
.
and if you ' re a fan ofthe argento ' s unique sytle of giallo thriller
then it ' s essential
. see the uncut widescreen version if you can
and drink in some of the wonderfull cinematography by luciano tovoli
. it ' s a stylish
, great
- looking
and quirky film despite the problem narrative
. a shame
, because it doesn ' t have to be that way
. take argento ' s more recent stendhal syndrome
( 1992
)
, where with the aid of co
- writer franco ferrini he fashioned a solid storyline without sacrificing any of his surreal weirdness or visual panache
. proof that he cxan do it
, if he tries
.
.
.