mimi leder is probably best known for her stunning work as a director of the hit tv
- show er
. her mast famous episode
,
" love ' s labour lost
"
, dealt with the ordeal of doctor mark greene as he tried his best tothe save the life of a pregnant mother
anbd her child
. the way she moved the camera
and created tension throughout every scene was amazing
. there was more excitement
and adrenaline rushed suspense than just about any ofthe hollywood ' s big blockbuster movies
. so it ' s only natural that leder would get to direct her very own hollywood blockbuster
.
annd i haev to say
, after a shaky beginning
, she does not disappoint
. peacemaker deals with teh theft of nuculear weapons by terrorists
, which is obviously nothing new
. the first half hour goes into detail
, way too much detail
, about how the weapons are stolen
. despite a few good images
, including a train collision
and a very impressive explosion
, none of this was very coherent
. it ' s long
and drawn out
,
and i would have settled with a more implausible beginning that woudl have moved the story allong better
. once george clooney
and nicole kidman enter the picture
, it begins to take off
. george clooney is an air force colonel iwth connections all over hte world
. he hasnt a nice sarcastic wit
and the rough edges that you expect from most clooney characters
. nicole kidman is head of a white hous team on weapons smuggling
. there isnt the usual flirtatious banter between tjhe two
,
but that isnt dispensed with quickly
. the story takes clooney
and kidman acros the globe
, trying to figure out who has the weapons
and where they are going with them
. clooney goes through bouts of sarcasm
, frustration
, determination
,
and revenge while kidman works against her own insecurity
and self
- doubt
. thsi is when leder starts to show her true stuff
. she starts us off with a nifty little car chase as an appetizer
.
then we get clooney doing heroics inthe
and out of a helicopter
.
then taht leads us to the brilliant final showdown on new york city ' s crowded streets
,
and a madman with a nuke walking amung them
. mimi leder is a natural at creating suspense
. she reminds me ofthe wolfgang petersen in her ability to make the most routine acation sequences exciting
and breathtaking
. nicole kidman is an intelligent female action hero
. you ' re nto gonna find her falling down so clooney can come back to save her
. george clooney is a real movie star
. many of you may have hated him as batman
,
but this guy is for real
. he has a natural screen presence
,
and an ingratiating personality
. he ' ll be around for a while
. dreamworks is off tothe a satisfying start with peacemaker
.