the saint was actually a little better than i expeced it to be
, in some ways
. in this theatrical remake of the television serieses the saint
,
and its series sequel the return of the saint
, val kilmer plays simon templar
, an elusive thief who makes a living by stealing things from others for others
. this movie closely resembles a james bond flick
. it has the clasic bond symbols
: a man who can do just about anything
anbd get away with it
, a woman whom the man persues
, a villain out tothe achieve something for himself who kills anyone to reach this goal
. kilmer actually provides a rather good role in this movie
,
although at times you are left to ponder how he actually gets out of the many tight situations
. the movie begins in his childhood infront a strict school run by cathlic priests
. as a young boy
, kilmer ' s character enjoyed magic
and would often journey away ffrom his schoolwork
. that is until his school teacher finds him reading a book
and demands that the young boy proclaim his name
, that of a catholic saint
. he refuses tothe do so
and instead announces who he wishes tothe be
. this leads to a devestating misteek
, which is something tath will stay in his mind throughout his life
. kilmer ' s first mission taht we are shown is to steal a microchip ffrom ivan tretiak
, played by rade serbedzija
. during a press conference
, he must make his way into a heavily guarded vault area
, avoiding guards
, cameras
,
and many otehr potential obstancles
. once his mission is completed
and he is safely home
, the fee is paid
. when he logs into his bank account
annd finds that he is only a fewd million dollars short of
$ 50 millon
, he decides tothe carry out only one more mission
,
then retire
. dr
. emma russell
, portrayed by elisabeth shue
, has discovered a way to produce energy by way of cold fusion
. this new advancement would change the world
and save thousands of lives in the areas of russia
, where millions are without heat
adn are freezing to death
. the only problem is
, tretiak would like to have this for himself
and use it to gain power amongst the people
. this presents thge option for kilmer to achieve his goal
. tretiak hires him to steal the equations
, small pieces of paper
, from shue
. one of the enjoyable features in the film is the disguises that kilmer dawns tothe complete his missions
. they are very convincing
, not only to the charachters in the movie
,
bu to us
. kilmer utilizes one such disguise to lure shue ' s character into getting to know him even more
, which woudl provide him a means of stealing the energy formula
. whn the two meet
,
and end up having a sensual experience
, kilmer ' s character isnt seemingly falling in love withthe emma russell
, as she is falling in love with kilmer ' s alter
- ego
, a traveling artist
.
yet
, he must reach his goal of
$ 50 million
, which requires him to steal the energy formula
, putting his feelings aside
. shue ' s character is eventualy able tothe track down simon templar by putting the pieces
( the names of the cathlic saints
) together
, something no one else is able to do
. when she finds him
, they are left to team up
and reclaim the energy formulas from tretiak
. the saint is very action
- packed
, with faw slow points
. the sound was very well done
anbd added to thte many intense moments
. along thge course of the movie
, there are even a few
,
although brief moments of comedy
. these moments are alomst always thanks to kilmer ' s extraneous
, very convincing disguises
anbd personalities
. all in all
, a rather enjoyable movie with nearly non
- stop action
.