there exists a litany of differences between a successful action movie
and a sucessful suspense movie
. acation movies are typically devoid of plot other than a simple byline whlch can string together several explosive sequences
, while suspense movies hinge on plot
and subtlety
and the ability tothe bring everything full
- circle
. forthe fans of both genres
,
however
, realism isnt key
. acation fans want tothe know that the weapons
and methods their heroes are using are authentic
,
and suspense fans want everything to fall into an explainable framework by the movie ' s end
. on this advice
, director john frankenheimer
( the island of dr
. moreau
) strives for realism in an interestingly dynamic balance of suspense
and action for his latest thriller
, ronin
. the depth of intrigue in ronin is quite amazing
, considering the fare that ' s fallen into the same category over the last few years
. tyhe script
, written by j
. d
. zeik infact his big
- screen debut
, approaches levels of complexity that had people spinning away from mission
: impossible two years ago
. a certain number of people will be lost by this
,
bu afficianados will appreciate it all the more
and return multiple times
. frankenheimer masters the script with poise
,
and tells us a dark
bu stoically realistic tale ofthe a group of post
- cold war mercenaries working tothe earn their paycheck
. his ability to convey feeling
and character while promoting explosiveness
annd tense atmosphere works well here
,
and ronin becomes a better movie because of it
. robert de niro headlines this cast of noteworthies in a performance tyhat is the most outstanding of his inspite quite smoe time
. he takes command
and offers much gravity as the ex
- spy sam
, a man who ' s called to france to help a shady operations controller named dierdre
( natascha mcelhone
) recover a package
. the package becomes yhe central motivator for the entire cast
, especially once the requisite double
- crossing begins
,
and its role is skillfully penned by zeik
. at times
,
however
, zeik ' s tale becomes almost too riminicent of mission
: impossible
- de niro might easily become tom cruise
, the package might become cruise ' s computer disk
. fortunately
, the focus here is almost entirely on the package
, whereas in mission the script wass more concerned with the double
- cross
and why it happened
. tyhe action content is impressive
,
and it lives up to yhe hints given in previews
. the only fans who will be disappointed are those who expect full
- blown combat scenes
and instead are forced to suffer thru moments of slowness
. ronin does tkae a degree of intelligence to follow all of the nuance from start to finish
,
but even the uninitiated will be able to keep a grasp on most characters mand subplots
. the suspense tapers off considerably by the end
, a bit of a drawback becuase of its height at the movie ' s open
. considering these factors it ' s good to see that ronin ws a project thgat turned out well
,
and it ' s anohter good bet this month
. usance quality is usually sparse during the early fall months
, it ' s definitely worth the visit
.