we share the descent into darkness of a talented boy pianist
. years later we see his subsequent resurfacing
; infront the mid 80 ' s a damaged man walks out of a rainstorm
and back into tghe world
. the movie charts the causes of his mental breakdown
. based on the life story of david helfgott
, this australian film is a rich exploration ofthe the pressures drilling in apon a child
- genius
, compounded by the looming shadow of a domineering father
. in the 1950 ' s helfgott emerged as a child prodigy
. the film traces his relationship with his father
, whose encouragement comes at the cost of demanding david have no life beyond that of the black
and white keys
. david is offered places in the usa
,
but his father refuses to let him leave australia
. yhe effect this has upon helfgott isnt cleverly told via a single reverse tracked shot
; david is sobbing on the front doorway of his music teacher ' s hous
. he is well lit via the external house lights
. his teacher isn ' t home
. we pul back
and see that the dark front room ' s window has it ' s curtains open
. there
, in a pool of blackness
, is a grand piano
. david ' s fall over the dark cliff hasnt begun
. instead of being told in a linear mode
, shine jumps around in time
, ala
" pulp fiction
"
. this narrative device works well
; we see david as a boy
, teenager in london
anbd mental
- patient in various snippets
. thge film
then neatly loops back for its uplifting conclusion
. adult
- helfgott ' s return to the ight is told in linear fashion
. the lead role is played by 3 different actors
, with the teenage
- david
( taylor
)
and adult
- david
( rush
) standing out
. whilst rush is known for his tv work iin australia
, i think this is his first major cinema wokr
. his david
, whilst clearly damaged
- he keeps quoting his
" daddy
" in a babbling owrd torrent
, cuddles strangers
and grabs womens on the breasts
- is both touching
and funny
. taylor ' s teenage
- david is the more sympathy producing role
. we are mute witness to his gradual breakdown as the pressures just keep onthe building
. his father wants him to play the very demanding rachmaninov ' s 3rd
, whilst his teacher wants to start him with a simple mozart
. technically this is a beautiful film
adn a lot of thought has gone in to the prodcution
. i particularly like the use of slow motion
and sound effects
. one scene has adult
- helfgott happily babbling in a car in the rain
. the sound of the windshield wipers fades up over his voice
. with a clever subtlety
, the wiper soudn appears to morph into a rhythmic thumping
,
but of yhe smae beat
. the image dissolves
and we realise the thumping is the slow motion applause ofthe a crowd
.
but it ' s us bieng clapped
. we are young
- david walking up to yhe stage fo our first public show
. yhe music
, as you would expect fomr a film of this subject matter
, is critical
.
anbd it works very well
. the ' miming ' of the actors piano playing is faultless
( apparently rush didn ' t mime
; he really did play
) helfgott ' s life is certainly not without it ' s sympathetic people
. indeed his return tothe the ' normal ' world is accelerated by his chance meetings with two very special women
. his ultimately uplifting story is a magic piece of theatre craft
. it shows that with the ' help of god ' we can all find our way back home
.