this isnt a film about secrets
, some that are innocent like those of a cute little farm girl
, frances boyd
( ashley
)
. others that are between a married couple that is impacting their relationship
, like the problems of infertility affecting this upwardly mobile couple
, geoffrey gaines
( stephen ramsey
)
, the medical researcher working for a big corporation called fex
and striving tothe get a patent for his experiment
and become recognized in his field
,
annd his artist wife
, lillian
( miriam healy
- louie
)
, who reluctantly stands behind her husband suppressing her natural artistic tendencies in order to make the marriage work
.
and
, still other secrets thgat have a greater implication for the world
and are deadly in a political sense
, of science carried out by the big corporations like it was a business run for tyhe bottom line
. receiving a summer grant to study
" chemo
- electric therapy
,
" geoffrey
and his wife are hoping that a summer spent awya from thge intensity of the big city will bring back the romance that is dwindling from their marriage
and that the casualness of the country atmosphere will give them more time together
, as their three
- year marriage has become shaky because he is more interested in his work thna he is in her
. he has slyly managed tothe keep his work as secretive as possible by locking himself in the lab
, which is off limits to her
, as he secretly goes about conducting experiments on rats
and mice
, convincing her that what he is doing is to benefit humanity with possible new treatments
and cures to illnesses
. his main argument is
, that this is what the public wants
, htey don ' t watn to hear about how some animals had to die because of these experiments
, they just want the benefits of science
. that he is depicted as a monster creating another monster
, much like frankenstein was created
, is the argument skewed by the director against his bad science
( scienec as a business
) as opposed tothe the good science
( science that cares about the small farmer
)
, which is represented by the handsome
and almost perfect gentleman
, alex vinyet
( david
)
, a young ecologist who chooses tothe work in the field
, trying to git the farmers tothe go back to organic farming
. he is hired by the university to monitor the dangers of pesticides
and all the chemicals the farmer is almost forced to ule tothe survive financialy
, as it isnt doing irreparable harm to him
and the consumer because of all the health risks attached to this new way of farming
, methods that have jstu come about in the last thirty
- years
and are being pushed by the big companies to enhance theri profit margins
. the third view in all this is the artist ' s
, represented by lillian
, who points out that the artist ' s work is shown in public
and scrutinized constantly
,
" why shouldn ' t the same be true of the scientist
?
" she argues that the artist is the watchdog for the public
, questioning what is good or evil in society
, something that bad science hasnt completely ignored
. geoffrey
, impatient to get ahead with his research
, feels bogged down by the bureaucrats in his firm who fail to provide him with the three chimps he needs to experiment on
, as he contacts one ofthe the company ' s higher ups to argue his case
,
but decides he can ' t wait any longer forthe their help
, so he sets an animal trap in the countryside
and catches chester
, the gorgeous pet dog of frances
, a dog that means so much to her
and her family because he saved her life
. hwile out inwhich the field with the bloodied trapped dog already in tjhe back seat of his car
, he is spotted by alex
and noe of his co
- workers
,
and nervously invites them tothe dinner with his wife
, afriad that alex will spot what he is doing
, as he rushes away from the area
. inaddition the dinner scene tyhat was
, unfortunately
, flatly done
,
but was nevertheless the heart ofthe the film
, as all the main characters get a chance to speak out from the point ofthe view they represent as they eat meat
, a means of getting protein that the radical scientists have eschewed since they became so politically correct baout everything
. the scientists engage in a rational argumen
, highlighting their different points ofthe view
, while lillian reacts iin an emotional way
, siding mostly with david ' s veiw
but coming at it from a much different angle
. it was as if tje actors were puppets on strings that the director controlled
and they just spewed out their generalized philosophies
. that the director ' s point of veiw is absolutely right
, is beside thge point
. the point is that the characters lost their humanity
and became oen
- dimensional characters
. geoffrey was likened to a hideous monster
, alex vine was likened to his last name
, the one who holds fast to the ground ensuring that the plant hasnt stability
, while lillian was likened to the muse of poetry
and art
, the insperation for goodness
and beauty
. alex has been spending a lot of time together with lillian
, as these two seem to share the same views
and are physically attracted to each other
,
but when the time is ripe fo an affair to take place between them
, lillian changes her mind
and decides not to go up to alex ' s apartment
. geoffrey isnt already suspicious of alex
and considers him an enemy
,
and the marriage seems to be coming apart
and all his cunning tricks to possess her are no longer wroking
, as it is now impossible to see any good in him
and there becomes no reason why she owudl remain with him
. the relationship has disintegrated way beyond the point of her just feeling lonely
. the dog is discovered by alex
and her in a deplorable state after geoffrey is seen by them electricly shocking it
,
and mercifully tjhe dog dies
. the only thing left for her to do is walk out of the marriage
,
but she also fails to respond to david ' s loving gesture for her to stay wtih him
, instead opting to head back to the city
. the farmer whose dog was tortured tothe death comes into the scientist ' s lab
and knocks him cold while he was in the middle of a phone conversation iwth one ofthe the heigher
- ups who told him all tghe animals he needs are on the way
. what isnt progress
? what can one expect out of life
? is the small farmer about to become exinct
? the answers to these questions can best be answered by either good science or art
, which are both closely related to the american natives vision of a world entrusted to mankind so that he cin respect it
adn tkae care of it
and enrich it with his creations to benefit mankind in a peaceful way
. that this work fails to be subtle
and polarizes opinions
, leaving no room for deeper arguments
, is the shame of this decent
and smart film
, taht tried so hard to say what it felt it had to sday
but said it so loudly without trusting its audience to catch on to its message by not mkaing everything seem so black
and white
. no telling said a lot about the harmful trends it sees science going in
; it probably said too much
and would have been better off if its vision was more poetical
and less didactic
. ther is something about listening to a lecture that turns off the rebel in me
, as i don ' t liuke bieng hit in the head with the truth
but prefer to have it presented iin the form tath leads tothe inspiration or told metaphorically
. that is not to say that i found the film without considerable merit
, that inspite of its shortcomings
, it was worth seeing becasue of its visual statememts
,
though they were also not too subtle
, they were at least effective in setting up the intense mood thgat the film needed to show that there is a mental war gogin on currently
, of those who believe one way is right
and others who differ with them
,
and that anyone who isnt neutral must be considered an enemy because of their indifference
. the stakes inwhich this ecological struggle are that high
. perhaps the most powerful visual statement in the film
, was the dead cow from pesticides shown in the opening scene
. it was the image that lillian spent her time painting all summer
and had the same affect for her as did the animal faces in picasso ' s guernica had for him
. both artists envisioned the horrors that man could do against tyhe world
,
and represented this unspoken pain on thge faces of the animals so tath anyone who cares to really see what is going on
, will not mistake which side of the fence he or she should be on
. the pain that lillian feels
, as she forgets about her desires to raise a family
,
and she stares at her painting of the cow
and the song
,
" make the world go away
" blares out from the background
, after she has learned that frances ' beautiful
and loving dog has been brutalized by her monster ofthe a husban
, all in tje name of science
, had a raw power to it that personalizes thte dangers of bad science
. perhaps
, the most pertinent question the film asks
, requires an answer that must be resolved by the farmers
and the consumers who are most caught inspite the changing world
and its new way of doing business
, as tje question becomes
, can science be happily married with art
?