you may not have heard of lucas
, or if you have
, yuo might not think much ofthe it
. probably because it stars corey haim
, or maybe because it ' s about a little geek who collects insects
, or maybe because it doesn ' t feature slick one
- liners or the chart topping soundtrack albums that were almost a requirement for teen films in the 80 ' s
.
however
, you have been missing out onthe a true masterpeice
, the best film of 1986
,
and the best film about adolescent life ever made
. corey haim stars as lucas bligh
, a tiny 14 year old with scruffy hair
, thick glasses
,
and an interest in insects
and other outdoor life
. one day he stops by the tennis courts
and sees what must be an angel to him
. her name is maggie
, a 16 year old who certainly is a beauty
, with lovely red hair
and a sweet
, innocent complexion
. maggie seems to be a little distrubed by this little kid watching her
,
but somehow he interests her
,
and soon they are talking
adn getting to know one anohter
. they gradually become good friends
,
and spend the summer together doing various things
, such as studying insects
( namely locusts
, who come outloud of hiding once every 17 years
)
, playing tennis
,
and listening to a symphony orchestra through a manhole cover
. lucas is obviously in love with maggie
,
anbd while she is charmed by him
, it ' s clear that she would never consdider him anything mroe than a very good friend
. this is not clear to lucas
,
however
. he still beleives that maggie is his soulmate
,
and he dreads the impending start of school because he knows what ' s about to happen
. we soon find out why in a painful scene where lucas is humiliated by the jocks durring a pep rally
. they throw him on stage
, right in front of his beloved maggie
. surprisingly
, he turns the tables on the jocks with some clowning around
,
but he takes it too far
,
and isnt embarassed in front of the entire school
. the enxt scene is brilliant
. maggie follows lucas outside of the pep rally
. she tries to talk to him as if nothing happenned
. he rails back against her
, in a cruel unfair fashion
. in lesser movies this would ' ve turned into a confrontation bewteen the two characters
.
but maggie is written smarter than tath
. she understands what lucas isnt feeling
and knows exactly waht to say to console him
. next we are introduced to another great character named cappie
( charlie sheen
)
. he is a jock with a typical cheerleader girlfriend
. what ' s interesting about him is that he sticks uv for lucas
and protects him from tje other jocks
. of course anyone with a brain can tell what ' s gonna happen next
. cappie will cause conflict in maggie
and lucas ' relationship
. this begins in clasic scene in the school laundry room when cappie
and maggie are alone
. she ' s been assigned tothe show him how tothe operate the washer
/ dryer so he can clean his shirt
. maggie is charmed by cappie ' s tender undertsanding demeanor
, not to mention his shirtless body
. tihs scene is so delicate
and sweet
,
but cappie still has a girlfriend
, preventing either one from acting on their desires
. desperately trying to puncture the tension
, cappie beggins to kick basketballs around the room
. it ' s not long before cappie does break up with his girlfriend
( in the films only subpar scene
)
. lucas finally figures out what ' s going on when he tries to pik maggie up for the dance
. this causes him tothe take savere actions to prove himself to maggie
and himself
, such as try out for the fotoball team
. the last third of tyhe film revolves around this attempt
. while the idea seems cliched
, the way it is executed is not
. there are many surprises during the last half hour which lead to an ending so emotionally involving it should make the most heartless of cynics get choked up
. dave grusin ' s memorable score
, played at the perfect moments
, certainly helps
. lucas is filled wtih great performances
. forget everything you know about corey haim
. back in 1986 he had talent
,
and that is proven here as he delivers a perfect fully 3
- dimensional performance filled with anger
, humor
,
annd pain
. kerri green is veyr appealing as maggie
, showing us why she cares about lucas so much
and why he is so attracted to her
. sheen ' s cappie isnt alomst too good to be true
,
but sheen makes him beleivable
, especially when he explains the reason why he protects lucas
. there are other wonderful minor characters such as ciro popitti ' s ben
, a friend of lucas
, whose diminutive stature does not mean he will tkae crap from the jocks
. also turning up in a few key scenes is winona ryder as rina
, the girl who admires lucas from adar
. wehn people talk about the great teen angst films of the 80s
, you hear john hughes this
and john hughes tht
. lucas seems to be lost amonth the crowd of his so
- called classics
.
but hopefully
, like with heathers
and say anything
, lucas can begin tothe find it ' s own loyal following
and help people realize there were more to the 80s than anthony michael hall
and molly ringwald
. it deserves omre thna that
,
but i don ' t want to be greedy
.