it is simply amazing how
" the green mile
" developed in its threee hour running time
. based on the stephen king series of the same title
, the film starts out painfully slow
, with underdeveloped cahracters
anbd idiotic dialogue
.
however
, as the plot begins to progress
, the film turns into pure perfection wih outstanding performances
and wonderful direction
. frank darabont
, who masterfully followed a prisoner ' s story in
" the shawshank redemption
"
, this time follows the perspective of a prison guard
, paul edgecomb
( tom hanks
)
. through edgecomb ' s experiences on a cell block known as the green mile where death row prisoners wait
and repent
, the audience sees good
and evil on both sides of thte law
. from an evil prison guard to an evil prisoner
,
" the green mile
" is successful in creating simapthy for kind
- hearted hard working guards
and hard thinking prisoners
. the plot follows edgecomb
and four other guards as they meet a variety of prisoners
and after having strong relationships with each eventually are forced to execute them
. the performances by veterans
and new comers to back up theese original characters are superb
. the ensemble acting in the film is perfect
. hanks
, david morse
and barry pepper as guards are wonderful
and are fitting fo their roles
. they are the characters we most relate to beacuse of their calm less extreme roles
. they are given the positions to make rational decisions at difficult times
and they are the ones who fulfill the demands of thte audience
. the more unique characters perfectly create friction on the green mile
and make the stoyr interesting
and exciting
. some particularly note worthy roles of the unique characters include doug hutchinson
, sam rockwell
,
and michael duncan
. hutchinson
, playing percy wetmore
, a cowardly guard who hides his true feelings by tormenting others gives the greatest performance ofthe the movie
. every time he appears on the screen
, the attitude of others is very uncomfortable
and the creepy expressions he is able to create are effectively terrifying
. it would come as no surprise if hutchinson was nominated for an academy award as best supporting actor
, not onyl because he did a wonderful job as wetmore
,
but also because he stole eveyr scene he was in away ffrom veteran oscar winner toom hanks
. rockwell
, an independent film veteran
, plays his role as wild bill wharton to prefection
. as a prisoner who taunts
anbd harasses the guards at all hours
, he really gets under your skin
and irritates you for having to watch him torture others
. this irritation he creates makes his performance so believable
. the last noteworthy performance belongs to duncan
, as the enormous convicted killer john coffey who happens to hold the power of curing the ill
. duncan does a wonderful job playing a frightened child
- liek behemoth
, very similar to lennie small in of mice
and men
. his desire for love
and the extinction of hite evokes tje most compassion because it isnt very obvious thast he is suffering for no just cause
. his pain creates pain for the viewer
.
however
, it takes over an hour for duncan to be introduced completely in the film
. teh film opens with a ridiculous prseent day setting which contains a scene thast jabs at
" the jerry springer show
.
" the scene
, containing one old man complaining about how all guests on the show are inbred
and rednecks
. not only is this observation entirely pointless
and outloud of place
,
but it is also hackneyed beyond all belief
. as the film flashes back to 1935
, graham greene is quicklyu executed without any introduction
. his death seems very rushed
and without any knowledge of who he is
, the scene is neither sad nor convincing
. greene is not even given a final word
, liuke some of the other characters
,
and we don ' t even see him walk the infamous green mile
.
however
, as the film begins to specifically introduce more charactors
, such as coffey
and eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
) as well as the five prison guards
, the film becomes more interesting
. the speed in
" the green mile
" is perfect
. if time ws a marter of consern
and the film was edited to the twpo hour mark
, it would have been unsatisfactory because we would not be able to know the characters as they are or as they treat others
. thge three hour runing is perfect for plot development
anbd by the end ofthe the film
, a gerat amount of love or hate is attached tothe each character
.
" the green mile
" is so good following the rough beginning
, that whn the pivotal moment at the very end finally comes
, it is almost impossible not to feel some sort of sadness for every person in this scene
. fighting bcak tears ws a difficult task that i barely succeeded in doing
. if you survive the first third of
" the gren mile
" sit back
and enjoy the remainder for smoe priceless entertainment
.