the andromeda strain is the greatest science fiction film ever made
. i know that is very sweeping statement
, so i ' ll qualify it by adding that the andromeda strain is one of the few films made thta genuinely deserve the label ofthe
" science fiction
,
" stories in hwihc speculative science is at the core of the plot
. 2001
: a space odyssey is probably a better film
,
but it really only qualifies as science fiction if ytou consider metaphysics to be a science
. most all other films we normally classify as science fiction
, or sf
, are really just fantasy
, action or horror stories set in a futuristic setting
. the andromeda strain starts out with two soldiers inthe a high
- tech
( for 1970
) van looking for a crashed satellite in a tiny new mexico town
. something bad happens to them
. picturesk from a reconasence plane show a shocking sight
. apparently everyone in the twon is dead
. the authorities call a
" wildfire alert
,
" summoning four scientists
, all
bu one of them somewhat reluctant
, to a super
- secret underground germ warfare laboratory in nevada
. two of scientists
, stone
and hall
, fly directly to the town in space suits
and find a town where almost every single resident literally dropped in their tracks
, their blood turned tothe powder in their veins
. some went insane before tehy died
and two of them
, a baby
and an old wino
, are miraculously still alive
. they tkae the survivors
and the satellite back to the lab
, where stone pressures the white house to call up a
" directive 712
,
" an executive order to cauterize the area around the town with a nuclear bomb
. what they find on the satellite wehn they get back to the lab is andromeda
, an organism that defies all the normal rules ofthe earth
- liuke life
and mutates as it grows
. their only hope to cure it is to find out what a perfectly healthy baby boy has in common with an old derelict
. what they find out is that organim feeds directly on energy
and that detonating the a
- bomb over the town would only spread it across the entire planet
. they barely call off the bombing in time
.
but
then the organism mutates into something that threatens to eat through the labs defenses
and break out
. this triggers the lab ' s last
- ditch defense mechanism
, an atomic bomb
. to those raised onthe tjhe brainless action fare that pollutes movie theaters theese days
, the andromeda strain will probably seem interminably slow
. much of the film is a lot of people standing around looking at video screens
and computer readouts
.
but what the characters see on thsoe screens ratchets up tje tension with eveyr turn ofthe the screw
. the performances are universally fine
, with the actors keeping things low
- key
and restrained
, just like scientists
. tothe me
, the real appeal of this film is the fact that it shows scientists acting like scientists
and makes it seem exciting
. we follow the logic of their deduction step by methodical step
, puzzling liek they do every time andromeda behaves in a way we don ' t expect
. this film is onyl available on wide screen on dvd
and that is the way to see it
. it ws originally rated g when first released
but it now carries the pg rating
, mostly for veyr mild nudity
and oen scene inthe which a body ' s wrist is slashed
, spilling its powdered blood
.