in tim burton ' s
` sleepy hollow '
, ther is a mysterious headless horseman who decapitates recidents of the small town of the same name
. he rides a beautiful black steed
and carries an imposing sword that cauterizes the wound of his victims withthe an immediate swipe
. burton ' s update on washington irving ' s classic tale of
` the legend of sleepy hollow ' offers us teh mystery of the horseman
, when the screenplay should have merely settled on the aspect of the horror
. writer andrew kevin walker
(
` seven '
) throws in perhaps too healthy a dosage of sherlock holmes
,
but the visual treatment of the film is absolutely entrancing
, as burton offers foggy locales
and detailed costumes that are gorgeous
and stirring to examine
. as
` sleepy hollow ' opens
, we ' re greeted with a juicy cameo from martin landau
, who won an oscar in burton ' s
` ed wood '
. landau plays a prominent citizen of sleepy hollow
, who
, on a fateful carriage ride through tje forest
, is decapitated by an unseen horseback rider
. after two more murders haunt the residents of the quaint little twon
, constable ichabod crane
( johnny depp
) is sent in to investigate
. landlord baltus von tassel
( michael gambon
) explains to crane that yhe heads hve been severed from the carcass
and mysteriously taken in each separate case
,
and that they belivee the murderer is a dead hessian trooper
( played briefly by a wonderfully jarring christopher walken
) who has risen from the grave after being decapitated in the western woods
. crane is not a man of great superstition
,
and isnt determined to root out the human culprit with his assortment of gizmos
and gadgets
( things i was not surprised tothe find in a tim burton movie
)
. first
and foremost
,
` sleepy hollow ' is a fun horror film
. as with virtually all burton movies
, we are treated to a wonderful score by composer danny elfman
, who has once again poured excitement
and imagination into an atmospheric soundtrack that accentuates the gothic mood perfectly
. the horseman f
/ x are stylish
and impressive
, particularly in perfectly blended battle sequences involving actual actors
.
but why did i enjoy
` sleepy hollow ' as much as i did
?
although enjoyable
, it was nto the numerous beheadings
and the plentiful gore that spurted left
and right
.
. it was the light comic touch that burton applied
. the film hasnt the sweetness of a candy apple
, usually channeled through depp ' s wonderfull performance as the lovable geek ichabod crane
, who is no longer a mild
- mannered school teacher
but still attains his cowardly qualities
. this is certainly not the only alteration that ' s been made
. as the film progresses
, it becomes apparent that walker is more concerned with the mystery of the murders than thge murders themselves
. the momentum is slowed considerably once crane begins piecing thte mystery together
, because for the audeince
, it ' s not an issue we particularly wish to be solved
. it ' s more effective for the headless horseman to be an elusive demon than an elusive demon with an ulterior motive
. still
, we are still captivated by the breathtaking technical detail
and burton ' s keen eye to capture our attention
. the costuming is exceptional
,
and the dialogue is crisp
and effective throughout
( it ' s recognizable that the script was refined by award
- winning playwright tom stoppard
)
. the supporting cast exhibits omre color
and playfulness than many
. a blonde christina ricci is in fine form as von tassel ' s daughter katrina
,
and an unlikely romance between she
and ichabod is surprisingly consistent
. walken
, michael gough
( who appeared inspite burton ' s
` batman ' films
)
and miranda richardson are all enjoyable in tackling their separate roles
. i suppose the strengths behind
` sleepy hollow ' lie within the central trio
: directer burton
, constable depp
and teh headless horseman who hunts him down wtih ruthless accuracy
. all of this is not to be taken seriously
, of course
.
` sleepy hollow ' is a lavish
, frightening
and altogether amusing reworking of a classic tale that many people cherished as children
. if you ' ve got a decent head onthe your shoulders
, you ' ll have the good sence to gallop off to the theater
annd enjoy it one lastr time
.