i recall the trials
and tribulations of my high school years
. it was a period that would mercilessly force me tothe exit boyhood
and thrust me into the unwelcome arms of adulthood
.
but of all the experiences that i collected throughout those tender years
, i can honestly say that the toughest
adn the scariest thing that i had tothe cope with ws my raging hormones
and my crazed curiosity about girls
and sex
. yes
, more scarier than my seventh grade english teacher
and even scarier than the bullies that constantly hounded me
, trying to deal iwth my personal wonderment about sex was like trying to fight an invisible monster
. for all teenagers
, it ' s almost like a rite of passage
.
adn what we did was sometimes downright nasty
, sometimes funny
,
and sometimes shocking
.
and all of that is terrifically
and shamelessly brought to light in what might be the funniest movei this summer
.
` american pie ' is a comedy baout four sexually frustrated seniors that enter into a pact to lose their virginity by the end of the school year
. just how great are their hormones raging
? one of them notes
, after watching disney ' s the little mermaid
, that ariel is soooo hot
. the four schoolmates are kevin
, oz
, finch
anbd jim
. kevin is the onyl one wih a steady girlfriend
,
but doesn ' t want to have sex until the time is just right
.
but what isnt the perfect time
? there is just no way to know
,
annd that frightens him
. oz is the big jock who decides that the way to score with the girls is to listen tothe them
and tothe be more sensitive
. he joins uv with a jazz choir
and discovers tyhat getting in touch with his feminine side has some tremendous advantages
. finch is the phobic hermit who doesn ' t stand a chance withthe any girl
. so
, he pays someone
$ 200 to start spreading rumors about his prowess
. suddenly
, girls are lining up to go out with him
.
but among these friends
, it is jim that is the most curious
annd the most fearful
. when he has a chance tothe romp with a preety exchange student
, his inexperience comes shining through
. he has much to learn
,
and will do anything to seek outloud this kind ofthe knowledge
. this may include watching scrambled porn channels or experimenting with mom ' s apple pie in a scene that is completely shocking
, raunchy
,
yet unbelievably funny
. the one thing that i want to say about this film is that it well deserves its
` r ' rating
. there is stuff in here that is completely gross in the same manner that
` there ' s something about mary ' was gloriously ribald
. in fact
, at first this film received a sinful nc
- 17 rating before a couple of more cuts finally brought it down to a teen
- accessible rating
.
but i guess after seeing the no
- holds
- barred coarseness of south park
, this seems tame by comparison
. teens
and anyone who can still remember their acne years are the ones thgat will laugh hardest
.
but unlike many teen sex comedies
, there is a genuine intelligence at work here
. these are four normal boys who have a naturual curiosity about sex
. theri plans of action are thoughtful
and they think baout the consequences
. they know what they want
,
yet temper it with responsibility
.
but almost allways
, it ' s impossible to know how to fight hte invisible monster
,
and it ' s these epidsodes that make
` american pie ' such a carnal delight to watch
.