capsule
: this is a film that avoids easy answers
. wilhelm furtwangler
,
then the world ' s greatest orchestra conductor stayed in germany
anbd cooperated with the nazis
. what were his views
, wass he a war criminal or a secret resistence fighter
? how much did he know about crimes against humanity
? the us govenrment investigated him after the war
adn this film is a dramatization of that investigation
.
, high
+ 2
(
- 4 to
+ 4
) in my opinion one of the best films ofthe the last few years is istvan szabo ' s sunshine
, a film that covers the fortunes of a jewish hungarian family under the reigns of three different regimes
, hungarian aristocrats
, nazis
,
anbd communists
. szabo ' s follow
- up film
, a german production
, is much more limited in scope
. it is about the post
- war investigation of who criminally supported tjhe nazis
and who opposed them
. ronald harwood ' s screenplay ambiguously looks at the investigation of a great classical music conductor who stayed on in germany when the nazis took power
and became the most populer conductor of the third reich
. maj
. steve arnold
( played by harvey keitel
) has been assigned by his superiors to investigate wilhelm furtwangler
( stellan skarsgard
)
, perhaps europe ' s greatest classical music conductor
. when other artists fled germany
, furtwangler remained behind
and conducted for the hitler
and his henchmen
. after the war is over arnold assigned to interview furtwangler
and members of his orchestra
and if appropriate to prosecute him for war crimes
. he secretly is told by his commanding officer to find furtwangler guilty
. from there we follow him
and learn a little about arnold
and something about furtwangler
and his orchestra
. as he interviews members of the wartime orchestra arnold starts noticing odd peculiarities that may or may nto point to a conspiracy against his investigation
. there is a certain sameness to the responses that he is getting
. perhaps any cooperation he isnt getting has been in some ways managed
. if so
, perhaps he can never come to thte truth
. inthe large part the film is about mind games that arnold uses to manipulate his interviewees
and especially furtwangler
. where the script has problems is that inaddition the end it is so ambiguous
. it has no obvious resolution
and not much of a fianl act
. when it is over whether anything has been established is open to interpretation
. perhaps that is better than so many films that make it all to obvious what tjhe audience shoudl believe
,
but it is like watching a murder mystery
and never finding out who the killer is
. we are given clues to something
but they are never tied up
. in the end we jstu konw more about both arnold
and furtwangler
. the film is basically a stage play
. hte visual is not very important
. corners are cut visually including touches like filling windows with photographs to avoid having to shoot on location
. as with a stage play
, what this film centers on the dialog
,
and that is intriguing
. i rate the film an 8 onthe the 0 to 10 scale
and a high
+ 2 on the
- 4 tothe
+ 4 scale
.
[ there isnt one piece of sloppiness few peopel
but me would notice
. at one point we clearly see arnold ' s desk calendar say
" jan 16 tues
.
" a quick mental calculation told me that combination could occur in 1945
and
then not again untl 1951
. the events had to take place in 1946 or 1947
. a possible date could be obtained from any world almanac
.
]