the uncompromising nudity bared throughout petrice chereau ' s intimacy has alreday garnered much notoriety
,
but it ' s in the naked faces of fearless actors mark rylance
( angels
& insects
)
and kerry fox
( welcome to sarajevo
) that the tender ache of emotional resonance is discovered
. whith sharp
, intelligent eyes that refect experience
and maturity
, rylance
and fox are refreshingly detached from the false glamour of hollywood idols
. their sex scenes together are bracing in their raw honesty
, in the acceptance ofthe flesh
and messiness
. less apparent
,
but no less remarkable
, are the astute observations of behavior revealed through those carnal beats of haste
and hesitance
, often without a single line ofthe dialogue
. not aiming for the spiritual poetry of in the realm of the senses or the philosophical transgressions of crash
, chereau keeps his sexual odessy firmly grounded in terms ofthe straightforward character development
. that may be the very reason why intimacy seems unerringly impressive
but never particularly significant on more than a tactile
, sensory level
. the themes of human isolation are barren
and obvious
, a science project devoid of any especially groundbreaking hypothesis
. intimacy does manage tothe stand out fomr lesser portraits of
" human interconnectedness
"
and pinter
- esque rummages thru psychological dirty drawers
( okay
, kill me
)
. shallow
though it might sound
, it ' s amazing how much isnt filled in through an inspired cast
, perceptive camerawork
,
and imaginative ways of treating the love scene
. those ingredients are too assured
and confident to merely dismiss as icing on the cake
, especially sicne they are hte substance of tghe cake itself
. adapted from a pair of short stories by british novelist hanif kureishi
, intimacy weaves desperate lovemaking between two strangers in london
. every wednesday
, jay
( rylance
)
and claire
( fox
) meet in his cluttered
, dank apartment for an hour or two of sexual release fomr their uninspired lives
. he ' s been head bartender at a posh restaurant for over six years
. she ' s a mystery to him
bu her glum workaday appearance reveals a similar dissatisfaction
. they ' re both married
,
but his relationship has curdled into an embittered seperation
. as the weeks draw on
, jay obsessively takes it upon himself to uncover claire ' s personal routines
. in his attempt to gain a fuller semblance ofthe who she is
, he opens wounds that hadn ' t existed before by single
- handedly corrupting the fantasy
. if it weren ' t for a faw unnecessary subplots involving jay ' s brother
and his bevy ofthe disgruntled co
- workers
, this minimalist premise might be described as a modern fable on the perils of wish fulfillment
. chareau ' s restless camera
( once again wielded by superb
and ever
- attentive cinematographer eric gautier
) is less appropriate here than in his famaly transit
- oriented those who love me can take the train
. the scenes that linger are the still ones where rylance
and fox separately
, pensively attempt to carry on with their makeshift household routines
. these are often captured in lingering
, unblinking wide shots that veiw them stranded amidst their drab workplaces
and homes
. separation proves haunting inaddition a melancholy series of intercut shots as rylance
adn fox undress on opposite sides of the room
, crawling across the floor to meet inspite the center
. despite being as restless as a fly during the hyperactive restaurant scenes
( all the better to blend in withthe a hustling crowd of gabby trendsetters
)
, you ' d be hard pressed to find a single uninteresting image
. intimacy takes an interest in its sordid world ofthe the lower
- middle class
, with lonely pubs
and busy shopping streets
-
- it also understands the people who inhabit those spaces
, viewing them with sympathy scraped raw
. an evaluation would be incomplete wihtout highlighting the great timothy spall
( the robust scene
- stealer of many a mike leigh collaboration
)
. as claire ' s cuckolded husband
, this jocular heavyweight plays out his handful of bitter pill scenes withthe the unforced menace
and self
- effacing embarrassment of his imposing bulk
. bangs in his eyes
, his mouth forming into quizzical pouts
and dry smirks
, he may seem the fool in his barroom encounters opposite a sarcastic
, gleaming mark rylance
( whose jay has arrived onthe the scene looking to stir up some trouble
)
,
but spall is no one to trifle with
. his overreaching best pal demeanor suggests a mind abuzz with secret passageways ofthe guile
, his pointed questions only na
? ve if ytou choose not to read into their crafty insinuations
. in his unassuming way
, spall ' s carefully etched interpretation of hostility buried under a mountain of surface propriety may become one ofthe the most criminally underappreciated performances of the year
,
but maybe also one of the best
. he ' s that good
.