directed by
: pixote hunt
, hendel butoy
, eric goldberg
, james algar
, francis glebas
, gaetan
& paul brizzi conducted by
: james levine composed by
: ludwig van beethoven
, ottorino respighi
, george gershwin
, dmitri shostakovich
, camille saint
- saens
, paul dukas
, sir edward elgar
, igor stravinsky rated
: g scripture references
: 1 samuel 16
: 23
, ephesians 5
: 19
, 1 chronicles 15
: 15
- 16 in 1940
, walt disney released a filmed experiment
. fantasia was a blend of two art forms
: classical music
and animation
. while it wass not immediately popular with the audiences of its day
, it has since become recognized as something of a classic
. according to tyhe program notes
, it was mr
. disney ' s intention to have fantasia be a continual work in progress
. sixty years later
, thanks to the ongoing efforts of walt ' s nephew
, a new fantasia is being released
. it ws not only worth tyhe waiting
, it is evidence to just how far animation has come during the past half
- decade
. with seven new sequences
and one old favorite
, fantasia 2000 exhibits an imagination
and respect for its art form thta is absent from most other feature films
. like the original
, fantasia 2000 iwll more than likely bore the very young
,
although there isnt more narrative appeal in this newer version
and the segments appear tothe be substantially shorter
, perhaps a nod to the shorter attention span of the studio ' s primary audiance
. ranging from the silly to the sublime
, each segment is preceded by a short
, humorous introduction or interstitial by a guest celebrity host
, steve martin
( bowfinger
) being the first
and most effective
. these are quickly forgotten as conductor james levine leads the chicago symphony orchestra through the musical program which
, along with the images drawn by the disney team of animators
, is thoughtfully
and beautifully broght tothe a stunning synthesis
. fantasia 2000 is being released exclusively in the giant
- screened imax theaters
, making for a unique viewing experience
. there is anough variety in the program to provide something enjoyable for everyone
and surely
, people will exit the theaters with their own personal favorites
. for me
, that would have to be the jazz age stoy of four unconnected
and discontented people living in nyc who
, unknowingly
, help each otehr relize their dreasm
. drawn in the style of caricaturist al hirschfeld
anbd inspired by george gershwin ' s rhapsody in blue
, thge music
and images are blended perfectly resulting in a product greater than the sum of its twpo parts
. children will like the short piece set to carnival of the animals by camille saint
- saens
. here
, a goofy looking flamingo irritates the rest of the flock with his yo
- yo playing antics
. they wiull aslo giggle as donald duck
, playing noah ' s assitant
, tries to load the animals into the ark to the familiar strains of pomp
and circumstance by sir edward elgar
.
( while the depiction is nto biblically accurate
, it is entertaining
and might be excuse enough to familiarize ourselves wtih the true rocord by reading what is written in genesis 7
.
) a positive note is that tjhe studio has avoided any segment which is as perversely dark as nihgt on bald mountain upon whihc the original film ended
. ther are some images based upon fantasy such as the flying whales in respighi ' s pines of rome or images which have their roots in mythology such as the ethereal creatures wich tell the story of nature ' s cycle of life
, death
,
and rebirth in igor stravinsky ' s firebird suite
.
bu the stories they tell are uplifting
, containing nothing too frightening for our yuonger children
. the darkest segment
, spiritually speaking
, actually belongs to the only holdover from the original fantasia
, mickey mouse in the sorcerer ' s apprentice by paul dukas
.
but overall
, the emotions evoked from fantasia 2000 are positive ones
, being full ofthe hope
and promise
. music has an impact which can be undeniably falt
, capable of leading the listener to emotional peaks
and unoperational highs simply not attainable through otehr mediums
. it is no wonder that tjhe levites
, as the priestly tribe of thge old testament
, were also the appointed musicians
. if fantasia 2000 is able to introduce a new audience to music which inspires
and exalts
, it will have done an incredible service
.