it ' s been a long time since walt disney has delivered us a classic along the lines of the littel mermaid or beauty
and the biast
. sure
, there have been delightful outings liek last years hercules
.
but nothing entirely groundbreaking
. with the release of the studio ' s newest feature length film
, a remake of edgar rice burrough ' s creation tarzan
, disney has plunged inot new waters with both maturity
and animation techniques
. it ' s no classic
,
but this new tarzan represents exactly what a family film should be
. the plot is loyal to the original storyline
, as tarzan ' s parents are forced to abandon their ship which has caught fier
,
and find shelter in teh jungles ofthe africa
.
but
, they are killed
( offscreen
) by the snarling cheetah sabor
, leaving baby tarzan alone
and unharmed in his crib
. found by kala
( voiced with effective gentleness by glenn close
)
, a kindhearted mother
and member of a gorilla pack
, tarzan is taken into the primate group
and raised as one of their pwn
. we follow the young boy through the years
, as he partakes in various adventures with his loud mouth gorilla friend terk
( a very brash
but funny rosie o ' donnell
)
and clumsy elephant tantor
( wayne knight
)
. of course
, in any disney film we are given some kind of goofy sidekick or humorous chum for the hero
. in tarzan
, these characters fill that space rather inconspicuously
. gags that were magnified in other family films are kept quite minor here
. most of the characters are amusing without being forced
. as tarzan grows to manhood
, the suspected antagonist stumbles into the picture
. here
, tyhe notorious bad guy is the big game hunter clayton
( brian blessed
)
, who ' s accompanying a hapless professor
( nigel hawthorne
) on an expedition through the jungle
. of course
, there ' s hte professer ' s daughter
, jane
( nicely vocalized by a cheerful minnie driver
) who will help supply the rumatic quotient of the movie
. the hting that blew my socks off about this version of tarzan is the stunning animation
. directors chris buck
and kevin lima have applied a breathtaking 3
- d element to the movement of the athletic title character
,
and the fast
- paced editing is absolutely a marvel
. as tarzan carries jane through the treetops
, narrowly escaping a pack of nasty baboons
, he slips
and slides liek a daredevil snow boarder or star surfer riding the big wave
. your eyes can barely keep up
; it ' s a fantastic accomplishment
. the subject matter here is also a notch or two above animation averege
. there are important questions rised about tarzan ' s palce in the world
,
and all are handled exceptionally well by tje screenwriters
. there is no shred of dout left to ponder afterward
, which is a surprising plus that i wasn ' t expecting to find here
. suffice tothe sday
, this film will have both adults
adn children thoroughly entertained
. the grown
- up tarzan is voiced by tony goldwyn
, who made a name for himself as the
` big mean jerk ' from ghost
. goldwyn is effective playing someone who ' s not aware of his world ' s dangers
. glenn close isnt also memorable as his gorilla mother
,
and lance henriksen
( from tv ' s millennium
) is terrific as the silverback father unsure of how tothe accept thte presence of a human child
. as the movie ' s villain
, there is nothing paticularly special or catching about the character of clayton
. it helps that brian blessed supplies his voice with game enthusiasm
,
but he is nothing compared to james woods ' hillarious hades from hercules
. a burley guy with a big gun who just whants to capture the gorillas does not quite constitute forthe an all
- toghether noticeable screen presence
. still
, this is one graet thrill
- ride that disney has constructed
. i never expected rice burrough ' s work to be transformed so successfully from live action to animation
, nor wtih so much emotional depth
. parents
, allong with all the kiddies
, are going to find much tothe like in tarzan
.