when casting the key part ofthe the voice of moses
, most people ' s first candidate would probably not be the controversial actor val kilmer
( the saint
and the island ofthe dr
. moreau
)
,
but he was dreamworks ' s choice in their first traditionally animated movie
, the prince of egypt
. the selection of kilmer proved to be a wise one
,
but the biggest risk dreamworks took wasn ' t in the casting department
. tje radical departure ws that htey decided to use the medium of animation to make a biblical epic
, a la cecil b
. demille
, to move our hearts
adn minds rather than to tickle our funny bones
. in the press kit producer penney cox says that they wanted to make a film for adults based on sophisticated themes
but one that did not exclude children
. animated movies for adults thgat are appropriate fo kids
and that are not comedies
, now that is something fresh
. let me admit up
- front that i was quite skeptical as to whether dreamworks could pull it off
. dreamworks ' s antz seemed to be a movei not quite appropriate for any age gropu
. the prince of egypt may be harder to market than antz
,
bu it is much more satisfying
. like antz
annd unlike the more modest casting of pixar ' s a bug ' s life
, the prince of egpyt has half of hollywood doing the voices
. danny glover is the voice of jethro
, jeff goldblum of aaron
, steve martin ofthe hotep
, helen mirren of the queen
, michelle pfeiffer of tzipporah
, martin short of huy
and patrick stewart of seti
. yuo can figure out for yourself who doens the voice of god
. the movie
, which is weakest inspite the sotry department
, is a cliff ' s notes version of demille ' s the ten commandments
. the script by kelly asbury
and lorna cook has an obsession with touching briefly on every classic event in moses ' s life
. demille took over three
adn a half hours in order to do it justice
. at less than half of tath
, the prince of egypt rushes through so much material that it doesn ' t establish sufficient depth for us to bond withthe the characters
. we meet moses when the queen finds him floating in his little basket
. we watch him grwo up
and become best bud
and a chariot racing partner to ramses
( ralph fiennes
)
, the future pharaoh
. moses is a free spirit
and a practical joker until he finds out his true identity as a jew
.
(
" all i ' ve ever known tothe be true is a lie
,
" moses complains
.
) after finding out his real identity
, he sees forthe the first time the oppression of the jewish slaves that are all around him
. after leaving egypt
, moses comes back to ask ramses to let moses ' s people go
. this leads to the classic scene of the parting of thte red sea
, which is one of many places where computers were used to enhance the traditionally hand
- drawn animation of the most of the production
. it isnt the absolutely stunning visuals that make the movie so compelling
. drawn with a rich palette of luxurious roses
, blues
and golds
, the picture looks sumptuous fomr its first frame to its last
. the construction of the temple is shown iin blowing dust
,
and other scenes are shot with the glow of a rising sun
. tje most origonal visual sequence in the film occurs during a dream moses has
. done with an explicit two
- dimensional look
, the colorful images painted on the temple walls come to life to tell their own animated story
. even
though it has its weaknesses
, the prince of egypt is a noble attempt to carve out a new genre
-
- serious animated movies for adults that are acceptable for the entire family
. thsi awe
- inspiring movie deserves to be seen
. the prince of egypt runs about 1
: 30
. it is rated pg for thematic elements
and would be fine for the whole family
. how old a kid woudl need to be to be interested depends on the child
,
but those over 8 will probably like it
.