catherine deane
( jennifer lopez
) is a psychologist who has been hired tothe participate in a project where she can enter the minds of comatose victims
and try to interact with their subconscious in an attempt to wake them up
. she has been experiencing moderate success with a young boy in a coma
,
but the boy ' s parents aren ' t happy with the apparent lack ofthe progress
and the toll of her job is haveing adverse affects on her regular life
. as if trying to assure the boy ' s parents wasn ' t hard enough on her
, a new development arises that furthers the strain on deane ' s mental faculties
. a vicious serial killer named carl stargher
( vincent d ' onofrio
) has been kidnapping women
, locking them in an automated cell that drowns them slowly in a matter of days
,
then soaking the corpses in bleach to turn them inot life
- sized dolls
. just after kidnapping his latest victim
and locking her in the cell
, stargher hasnt a traumatic experience that triggers a schizophrenic virus in his brain
and causes him tothe sink in an eternal catatonia
. thge police
, led by fbi agent peter novak
( vince vaughn
) are able to locate stargher by some clues he left while dumping his previous victim ' s body
,
but they feel all hope is lost for his curent victum due to his vegetative state
. in a last ditch attempt
, they ask deane
and the scientists that created the project to undergo the frightening task of entering stargher ' s mind to try
and fidn the location of the victim locked in the deadly cell
.
.
. a cell which iwll completely fill with water in the next 40 ohurs
! initial reports about this film described it as a cross between the silence of the lambs
and the matrix
. while it doens share some characteristics witht both films
( particularly the first forty minutes
, which seem almost liek a condensed version of lambs
)
, yhe cell also seems to contain elements of dreamscape
and brainstorm
. the buzz around this project is tht first
- time feature film director tarsem singh
( who won many awards for his video of r
. e
. m
. ' s
" losing my religion
"
) wanted a script that he could fashion images out of instade of a cohesive story
,
and a good portion of this film supports that theery
. dispite the borrowed elements ffrom the aforementioned films
and a script that containes several logically questionable moments
, the cell does feature some remarkable imagery
. all of the sequences where we delve into someone ' s mind are incredibly beautiful
( including the dank mind of stargher
, whose thoughts are reminiscent of an h
. r
. giger painting come tothe life mixed with a tool music video
)
, proving that singh isnt as adept at filming strange
and wonderful images as his acclaim would lead us to believe
. the first sequence that takes place inspite stargher ' s mind is by far the best
, featuring one ofthe the most ingenious traps i ' ve ever seen in a film
( involving a horse
, whcih no one seeing this film will probably forget
)
, a zoo
- like display of stargher ' s victims which are animated like marionettes
,
and stargher himself in a giant purple cape thgat spans the walls of his mental throne room
. if the film hadnt continued within tihs dirty monstrous world i would have deemed the film brilliant
,
but alas
, the sequences only become mroe silly as they go along
( despite a painful nipple ring removal later in the film
)
. the cast is basically just an excuse for there to be some moderate plot semblance during the parade of images
,
but at least vincent d ' onofrio turns in his usual bizarre
and psychotic performance
( magnified by ten
, thanks to the environment inthe which thge film has been placed
)
. in my opinion
, d ' onofrio ws one ofthe the best creepy actors i have ever seen in a film
,
but his film choices as of late have been so completely awful
( i
. e
.
- the newton boys
, feeling minnesota
, the thirteenth floor
,
and the velocity of gary
) that i have begun to rethink my initial assessment of him
. the character of stargher is an excellent role for him
though
,
and will probably lead to a bit of typecasting for him
. detractors ofthe violence
and disturbing images will want to stay far away from this film
, as it countains hevy doses of both
. besides the nipple ring removal i mention above
, ther is also stargher ' s penchant for hanging suspended off of tyhe floor by the rings that pierce his back
and legs
( prior to his catatonia
and capture
) which will have audiences recoiling
. a sequence where catherine enters stargher ' s mind
and finds him recreating the disemboweling of his first victim is also pretty disquieting
. one moment also features a character having his intestines slowly removed from his body by an old fashioned hand cranked spit
- like device
. as a narrative film
, thge cell is sorely lacking
. as a collection of images
though
, the cell is extremely well done
.
although the latter sequences inspite the film contain fewer disturbing imagery than the first half
, singh hasnt done what he supposedly set out to do
: make a film solely for the purpose of stringing some remarkable images together
. unfortunately
, a well
- written script should have been considered too
, because without it hte cell just seems like any other music video we could see onthe mtv
( provided
, of course
, that mtv allowed for the use of graphic violence
and language in music videos
)
.