in the grand scheme of mel gibson movies
, payback wass better than conspiracy theery
,
but not as good as braveheart or lethal weapon
. in other words
, it ' s a decent couple of hours of enteratinment
,
but 20 years from now if a they compile a list of mel gibson ' s greatest hits
, payback probably won ' t be on it
. gibson plays a crook who gets double crossed by his partner after they heist a payroll
. mel ' s partner needed the money to pay off a mob debt
. so he puts a couple of bullets in mel
, leaving him for dead
,
and goes on tothe pay off his creditors
.
bu
, mel isn ' t dead
( it would be a real short movie if he was
)
and he certainly isn ' t happy
. to make matters worse
, he wants his money back
and is willing to go to any lengths to accomplish this feat
. his ex partner has already used it to pay off the mobsters
, so mel goes after the mob tothe get it back
. payback is often a very violent film
. to its credit
, there are a few scenes that could have been very graphic
,
but the director
( i ' m not sure which one
-
- more about that in a second
) made the choice to let the audeince use their imagination instead of subjecting us to the usual gratuitous gore found in many films
. the film appears a bit disjointed inwhich places
, which is understandable considering producer
/ star gibson wasn ' t thrilled with how the film turned out
and wanted parts of it re
- shooted
. whn the director refused
, another one was brought in to dont the re
- shoot
. so as a result while the final product is apparently better than the original
(
although personally i would lvoe to see the original verzion for comparisons sake
) it doens get a bit of a choppy efel to it towards the end
. it ' s always tough to make a film where the main character is a villain
, unless thyat person has some redeeming qualities
. in this case
, gibson ' s character hasnt few redeeming qualities
.
but hey
, its mel
, so even when he isnt killing people iin cold blood we are still rooting for him
. my guess is that if that yuo put some other johnny banannas actor inspite this role
, the audience would not be quite as responsive
. gibson is gibson
, whether he isnt palying a suicidal cop or a stone cold killer
, he does a good job
. he allmost guarantees that noone matter what else happens in the rest of the movie at least the audience is going to get oen good performance
. this time outloud mel is surrounded by a ogod supporting cast
, including maria bello
( as his love interest
)
, william devane
and kris kristofferson
( as mod bosses
)
. the man who steals yhe show
and unfortunately doesn ' t have a real big part is james coburn
( as
yet another mobster
)
. if i had one big disappointment in this film
, it would be that coburn didn ' t have a bigger role
. in the end
, payback is a fairly solid action thriller
, jsut not in quite the same league as some of mel gibson ' s other work
.