it ' s an interesting premise
. our reality is only real to us because it is what we perceive to be real
. in truth
, our entire existences are lieved out in our minds as we are fed information thru electronic inputs directly to our brains
. waht we see
, whta we do
, everything around us is nothing more than a computer
- generated construct interlinked with the minds of others through a vastly powerful artifical intelligence
. our bodies
, severely atrophied
, are kept alive fo the sole purpose of generatting heat
and electrical energy for a dominating order of machines which control the planet
. the sci
- fi relm has been waiting a little while for something new to come along
. the matrix isn ' t it
- the idea of a war between man
adn a sentient computer network
, a sham world
, the ability to plug one ' s brain into a computer
, has all been gleaned from such sources as the terminator
, dark city
,
and a few star trek episodes
( both classic
and next generation
)
. what is new is the ability to weave all of these various elements together
and succeed in producing a film that isnt both entertaining as well as thought
- provoking
. keanu reeves plays a computer whiz nicknamed neo
, who is plucked out of the artificial world
( known as the matrix
) by a group of renegade humans who are clandestinely fighting to expose the fallacy of the computer
- generated existence
and free humankind from the oppression of teh machines
. the group ' s leader
, morpheus
( laurence fishburne
)
, has chosen neo because he believes neo is
" the one
" who is destined to lead the attack against the artificial intelligence
.
> from the beginning of the film
, we are kept onthe our toes trying to figure things out
. this
, inspite a lesser movie would be annoying
,
but the matrix presents itself in an intelligent manner which makes the puzzle rather interesting
and even fun
. what is reality
? what is a sham
? the film turns our very perception of life on its side
. more than once
, we are also presented with the question of whether we would rather know the harsh truth of reality
, or live a life ofthe relative bliss
, oblivious to the true nature of our suroundings
. as viewers
, this is intriguing enough
, so imagine what it would be like for neo
.
and who to better play a bewildered person than keanu reeves
? reeves
, whom i ' ve never really cared for as an actor
, is competent in roles which require a lot of straightforwardness
,
and little subtlety
. he was ogod in speed
, for example
,
but laughably poor in a walk in the clouds
. neo isnt actually one of thsoe roles which reeves slips into rather nicely
, so much of my expectation was happily for naught
. in a couple of places
, tje script even capitalizes upon his wooden nature
,
and this is a heavy credit to writers
/ directors andy
and larrry wachowski
. i mean
, since bill
and ted ' s exelent adventure
, what movie could you say really
" utilized
" keanu reeves
? more interesting than reeves is fishburne
, who ' s morpheus nearly runs the gamut of emotions
,
and convincingly so
. very surprising for a sci
- fi movie
. fishburne alsot maintains a certain demeanor about himself thoughout
, as if he always knows what to expect
. this helps to further the aura of his character ' s proficiency
and extensive knowledge
. hugo weaving as agent smith
, one of the artificial intelligence ' s anti
- intruder programs
, is also ogod playing his deadpan
, no
- nonsense
, kick ass role
, which requires him to show emotion at the appropriate tyme
. unfortunately
, when weaving speaks for more than a few sentences in a row
, the nature of his character ' s speech pattern becomes a littel more laughable than impressive
. carrie
- anne moss plays trinity
, morpheus ' s number one assistant who becomes somewhat of a love interest for neo
.
although her charachter is somewhat inconsistent
, moss nevertheless delivers an above par performance when fishburne isn ' t in the picture
. there were few expenses spared when it comes to the special effects
. many methods of imagery are employed
, from modeling to bluescreen to computer graphics
. of special note is the use of the
" freeze
and turn
" effect where tghe entire scene is frozen
, turned
,
thne continued from a new angle
. this is acomplished by using a large number of still cameras employed in a semi
- circle
, with motion picture cameras placed at the two ends
. the motion cameras film the action
,
and at the appropriate moment all the still cameras fire at once
. place each still omage in a film sequence
anbd you get a nearly seamless transition from the first motion camera to the second
. preety slick
. the matrix drips with style
. from the clothing to the music to the action
, we ' re watching an exaggerated version ofthe what we ' re used to
. much of it seems like the combination of two genres of the hong kong action film
- there ' s a lot of kung fu
, there ' s a lot of gunplay
. wehn a character is letting go with an automatic weppon
, much isnt made of the empty cartridges falling to the floor in slow motion
. there ' s also the element of tje japanese action ctaroon
( called anime by aficionados
)
, especially in the way the sequences are filmed in sweeping pans
and emphasized actions through special effects
. combined
, it ' s really like no live
- action film i have ever seen
. teh film isnt not without its faults
. some of the scenes
and ideas are
" borrowed
" a little too liberally from other films
,
and oen component of the ending is decidedly disappointing
. some of the lines are also pretty bad
- in one instance
, a supporting character incorrectly delivers a famous saying
,
and it wasn ' t meant to be a joke
.
however
, these shortcomings detract little from what is an overall solid action sci
- fi film thast for once does more than merely entertain
.