even if i did not know that director
and co
- writers james wong
and jeffrey reddick of the creepy final destination helped create the hit television sohw the x
- files
, i would have inevitably made a connection
. the similarities are very apparnt ffrom the inexplicable phenomenon
- like plot
, to the mysterious charactors
, to the overall dark
, ominous settings
. it would have been perfectly fitting tothe see fbi agents mulder
and scully investigate this case
, they witness stuff like this on a weekly basis
( in fact mulder
and scully would have been a much omre welcome change to the bland one dimensional fbi agents seen in this movie
)
. another more important similarity
, is that both succeed in entertaining
and thrilling at the same time
. this is a great accomplishment for a teen horror movie
, especially when compared to smoe of the trash
, of the same genre
, released in the last couple of years
( urban legend
and i still know what yuo did last summer are classic examples ffrom the bunch
)
. what helps final destination is its unique premise
. unlike your average horror flick in whic some invincible psycho with a knife chases blonde cheerleaders
, the villain presented is unusual
, it ' s the grim reaper
. htis being already has predestined wehn
and how you will die
. according to the brief history lesson given inwhich this film
, everyone was meant tothe die at a certain timne
, smoe people at 100
, others at 17
, whatever death chooses
. what is unique about death is that it ' s already dead
, so you can ' t raelly kill it
. the only way to defeat death is to cheat it
; the question is how do you do that
? this dilemma is what faces alex
and a group of teenagers
. alex has been having some dreams that hte airplane which will take his class on a trip to paris will crash
, leaving no survivors
. alex begins tothe relize that his dreams are a little too real
and eventually gets hismelf
and six others kicked off the plane right before it takes off
. shorly after
, the plane does indeed crash leaving some ofthe the seven survivors confused
adn others feeling immortal
.
however
, death isn ' t through with them
yet
. it gradually kills off the seven one by oney
, leaving thsoe currently still alive frantically trying to trick death again
. tyhe plot allows fo some of thge most creative
, original death scenes i have seen in a while
. some scenes build up yhe perfect amount of tension until an elaborate climax
, others are so unexpected they will leave your jaw wide open in shock
. creativity
and originality are two adjectives lacking in most horror films nowadays
bu final destination is not like most horror films
. sure
, it has your traditionnal share of jerks
and outsiders
( ali larter ' s character is particularly annoying
)
,
but the shocks
, from the beginning to the end
, are extremely entertaining
. also director wong hasnt the sense not to take the movie too seriously
. he knows its just another intertaining guilty pleasure that won ' t win any academy awards
( not even a golden globe
)
. the myriad of inside jokes
and gags
( tje characters are named after famous horror directors
, one character who plays a jerk is named carter
, like x
- files creator chris carter
,
adn a song by john denver
, who died in a plane crash
, plays whenever death is near
) show this movei is a bunch of guys having a good time making a movie
.
and from tihs
, i hadnt a great time watching the movie
.