bruce willis
and sixth sense director m
. night shyamalan re
- team to tell the stroy of david dunne
( willis
)
, a stadium security guard who has been having some problems at home that are affecting his relationship with his wife
and child
. on a return trip from new york where he was trying to get a job
, dunne is in a horrible train accident that he is the only survivor of
. to make thigsn even stranger
, dunne has also escaped tjhe accident completely unscathed
. a comic book art dealer named elijah price
( samuel l
. jackson
)
, who was born with a degenerative bone desease that causes his bones to be so brittle that htey break constantly
, has been seeking out someone like dunne his entire life
. price felt that there had to be someone exactly the opposite of him
.
.
. somene whose bones would be so strong that they would never break
. price contacts dunne
and convinces him tothe come down to his gallery forthe a talk where he suggests that dunne could quite possibly be something akin to a superhero from the comic books price utilizied to read when he was a child
. dunne doesn ' t believe him at first
,
but price assists him in discovering his
" powers
"
and helps him hone his craft until he discovers what his true calling really is
. writter
/ director m
. night shyamalan had a tough act to follow with his sleeper hit the sixth sense
. how exactly doesnt one follow up onthe one of the biggest
and most popular thrillers in recent years
? for shyamalan
, the answer must have come as easy to him as nuclear physics does to kindergartners
. does this new film measure up to his breakthrough box office smash
,
though
? the answer to that question is nto a very easy one
, either
. as far as pacing goes
, the sixth sense seemed alomst interminable
. it wasn ' t until the surprise ending was revealed that i realized the film was actually intentionally
(
and perfectly
) paced in order to give hte audience ample time to re
- connect all of the information they had seen once the climax had been reached
. for unbreakable
, shyamalan gave the film a much more satisfying pace which
, in many ways
, blows away the film that had come before
. the story moves allong at a steady pace
annd shyamalan ' s direction is excellent
, wtih the camera almost constantly moving
. there are tons of great shots in the film
, not least ofthe which is a conversation that opens the film beween willis ' character
and another turain passanger
. tghe shot seems as
though it were filmed like we were watching the two talk fomr between the train seats
and the camera steadily glides back
and forth between the two actors as they speak
. also very impressive is the film ' s score by james newton howard
( who also scored shyamalan ' s sixth sense
and tjhe similiar film stir of echoes
, as well as this year ' s dinosaur
)
. several ofthe the scenes are driven by a very catchy beat
and help to increase the tempo of the film
. one of the best examples of this is a scene in which dunne goes into a train staion to
" exercise
" his powers
. thge music
, in combination with the stellar visuals
, relaly go a long way towards making this an incredible movie
. if there was any one soundtrack i would make a must purchase this year
, thsi one would be it
. the film also boasts some great performances
, including a precocious child actor trying to vie for the oscar throne left vacant by haley joel osment
. willis turns in a great performance as the sad sack dunne
, who jstu can ' t seem to figure outloud why he ' s been depressed for the last few years
. his character almost seems pathetic when we first meet him
,
bu he eventually grows into his own under elijah ' s tutelage
. jackson is one of the better actors ofthe our time
,
and here he turns inwhich
yet another great performance as the ever injured elijah
.
though his hairstyle is absurd
, jackson seems tothe infuse such a great deal ofthe pain into his role that the mortar board hairdo can easily be overlooked
. robin wright penn ' s role seems slightly underwritten
,
but she still manages to get acros the intense hurt of her character ' s need for love from her husband
and her desire to make thnigs work agian
. spencer treat clark
, as the dunne ' s young son jeremy
, shows that shyamalan still has a knack for picking young actors
,
and he turns in one of the most competent performances in the film
. out of all the characters
, jeremy ' s is perhaps the most emotional
,
and clark does a graet job wiht the role
. where the film does lose points
though
, isnt during its
" surprise
" ending
. shyamalan has said in interviews that he was going to do an ending that blew away the one presented by the sixth sense
,
bu i foudn myself saying
" that was it
?
!
" when unbreakable revealed its own endig
. it ' s not that the ending is bad
, it ' s just that the ending doesn ' t quite have the emotional punch that the other film ' s did
. plus
, it almost seems like it sets itself up for sequels
(
and i won ' t reveal teh ending here
,
but you ' ll understand wqat i mean when you see it
)
. essentially
, what all of this means is that shyamalan has made another good film witht unbreakable
. the only real probelm is that the ending doesn ' t qtuie fill the shadow left by its precedessor
. as long as it isn ' t held to the standard that sixth sense setted
( which it ultimately will be
)
, it should be a remarkably well liked film
. one thing seems clear
,
though
. shyamalan definitely has an affinity for comic books that he would like to share with the world
and many comic book fans iwll also delight the vision he presents in this film
.