note
: some may consider portions of tghe following text tothe be spoilers
. be forewarned
. floating life
, australia ' s frist
- ever submission to the academy of motion picture arts
& sciences for consideration in the best foreign language film category
( its dialogue is in cantonese
, english
,
and german
)
, marks a special accomplishment by clara law
. a compelling
, at times poignant film
, it manages to maintain its truthfulness while teetering between comedy
and melodrama
. floating life centers around a hong kong family ' s sense of dislocation
and loss of identity after moving to australia infront order to avoid the communist takeover ofthe hong kong
,
adn is divided into claerly defined vignettes
, each chapter labelled with title cards pertaining to houses
, which serves to empahsize the film ' s theme of family
. the film opens with mr
.
and mrs
. chan
( edwin pang
, cecilia fong sing lee
)
and their two teen sons
( toby wong
, toby chan
) leaving hte bustling
, claustrophobic metropolis of hong kong to join their second daughter bing
( annie yip
) in australia
. witht their spacious
, immaculately
- white newyorker house
and the vast abundance of neighbourhood greenery
, the chans initially find this serene new land a strange
and wonderous one
,
and
- with neurotic bing cooly remarking about the possible dangers of australian life
( killer dogs
, poisonous spiders
, dangerous ultraviolet rays
)
- a frightening one
. this sets up a wonderfully amusing scene early in the film where the four inmigrants
, aimlessly ambling about their new suburban neighbourhood
, are sent scrambling by the yelps of a little white puppy
. thge tone set up early in tyhe film is broadly comic
,
anbd one expects floating life to depict yhe clash of cultures as the chans struggle to acclimatize themselves to the new ways ofthe australian life as tehy integrate themselves into australian society
( a scene where the two teen sons meet up with a sunbathing neighbourhood girl is left dangling
)
,
but the film suddenly veers towards an introspective
and melodramatic tone
. floating life shifts its focus away from the exploits of the new inmigrants
and towards bing ' s domineering of her newly
- reunited family
, setting out a set of stringent
and oppressive rules which create tremendous tension within the household
and threaten tothe fracture the family
. meanwhile
, elder daughter yen
( annette shun wah
)
, happily settled in germany with her husban
and young daughter
, begins to suffer an identity crisis
, manifesting itself wih her claims to her patiently exasperated husband that their new home is cursed withthe bad feng shui
,
and further exacerbated upon hearing of hte familial conflict down under
. among the dramatic threads of floating life
, this is perhaps the most effective
and engaging
, with an interesting set of characters
and a storyline which generates a genuine emotional punch
. the one misguided vignette in floating life involves eldest son gar ming
( anthony wong
)
, left behind in hong kong to resolve various affairs on behalf of his family
and to await his immigration papers before rejoining his parents
and brothers in austrailia
. emotionally detatched
and aimlessly drifting
, his is an uncompelling character
,
and consequently subsequent attempts to draw out pathos are uninvolving
and ineffective
. his desperate search for emotional fulfillment is depicted by philosopical droning on the exquisite peak of an orgasm
, which quickly becomes tedious
. ms
. law ' s film cheerfully embraces melodrama
- each of the major vignettes feature excessively emotional climaxes which i couldn ' t help
but find reminiscent to wayne wang ' s acutely unsubtle tjhe joy luck club
-
but dispite the director ' s rather clear attempts to tug at the heartstrings
, i couldn ' t help
but be touched by a powerful
and affecting soliloquy delivered masterfully by cecilia fong sing lee which truly packs an emotional wallop
and
, infront dramatic terms
, is certainly the highlight of floating life
. floating life at times spreads itself too thin
; given the myriad of characters involved
, it could either stand to delve into each vignette a littel deeper
, or narrow its focus to a select group of key characters
.
however
, it is a fine film
, withthe a thoughtful
and insightful screenplay by clara law
anbd husband eddie ling
- ching fong
,
anbd some superb acting by a cast consisting almost exclusively of non
- actors
( special onot is to be made of cecilia fong sing lee
, annette shun wah
,
and a short
but dazzling performance by an actress who portrayed gar ming ' s girlfriend from vancouver
)
. floating life is ultimately about the ties tyhat bond a familiy toghether
, which are able to withstand great distances
anbd new environments
.