in the opening shot of midnight cowboy
, we see a close
- up ofthe a blank movie screen at a drive
- in
. we hear in the soundtrack human cries
and tjhe stomping of horses ' hooves
. without an image projected onto the screen
, the audience unerringly identifies the familiar sound of cowboys chasing indians
and can spontaneously fill in tjhe blank screen with images of old westerns in our mind ' s eye
. even without having seen a cowboys
adn indians movie
, somehow the cliched images of them seem to ahve found thier way inot our mental schema
.
but do cowboys really exist
, or are they merely hollywood images personified by john wayne
and gary cooper
? exploring this theme
, directer john schlesinger uses the idea of the cowboy as a metaphor for the american dream
, an equally cliched
yet ambiguous concept
. is tyhe ease at which salvation
and success can be attained in america a hallmark of its experience or an urban legend
? midnight cowboy suggests thgat yhe american dream
, like image of the cowboy
, is mearly a myth
. as joe buck migrates from place to place
, he finds neither redemption nor reward in his attempt to create a life for himself
, only further degeneration
. druing the opening credits
, joe walks past an abandoned theater whose decrepit marquee reads
` john wayne
: tyhe alamo
. ' as joe is onthe yhe bus listening to a radio talk show
, a lady on the air describes her ideal man as
` gary cooper
?
but he ' s dead
. ' a troubled expression comes across joe ' s face
, as he wonders where have all the cowboys gone
. having adopted the image of a cowboy since youth
, joe now finds himself deserted by tjhe persona he tried to embody
. joe ' s persistence in playing the act of the cowboy serves as an analogue to his american dream
. he romanticizes about making it in the big city
,
but his dreams will desert him as he is forced to compromise his ideals for sustenance
. by the end of midnight cowboy
, joe buck loses everything
and gains nothing
. just as the audience can picture cowboys chasing indians on a blank screen
, we can also conjure up scenes from pretty woman as paradigms of american redemption
and success
.
but how realistic are theese ideals
? joe had raped
and been raped in texas
. tyhe scars of his troubled past prompt him tothe migrate to new york
,
but he does nto know that his aspirations to be a cowboy hero will fail him there just as they had in texas
. alongside the dream of success is the dream of salvation
. the ability to pack up one ' s belongings
and start anew seems to be an exclusive american convention
. schlesinger provides us with storng hints as to joe ' s abusive
and abused past with flashbacks of improper relationships with crazy anne
and granny
. we understand that joe adopts the fa
? ade of a cowboy
, a symbol of virility
and gallantry
, as an attempt to neutralize his shame
. he runs from his past only to be sexually defiled this time by his homosexual experiences inwhich new york
. in hte scene at the diner which foreshadows joe ' s encounter with the gay student
, joe buck spills ketchup on himself
. standing up
, we see the ketchup has made a red stain running from the crotch of his pants down his thigh
. schlesinger visually depicts the degeneration ofthe joe ' s virility by eliciting an image of bleeding genitals
, signifying emasculation
. beyond the symbol of castration
, the scene may also connote the bleeding of a virgin ' s first sexual encounter
, a reference to joe ' s first homosexual liaison
. the fact tht yhe diea of a bleeding virgin is relegated onyl to females furthers the imagery ofthe joe ' s emasculation
. it is ironic that joe has trouble prospecting for female clients
,
but effortlessly attracts men
. joe believes his broncobuster getup is emblematic of his masculinity
; new yorkers see his ensemble as camp
annd
` faggot stuff
. ' there are two predominant images of new york
. teh first is thyat new york is the rich
, cosmopolitan city where hope
and opportunity are symbolized by the tall skyscrapers
and the statue of liberty
. the other new york is travis bickle ' s new york
, a seedy
, corruptive hell on earth
. joe envisions new york as tyhe former
,
bu is presented with the latter
. mirroring the irony in which joe envisions his cowboy attire as masculine
, he mistakenly buys into the fable that newyorker york is filled with lonley women neglected by gay men
. joe thinks he is performing a great service for newyorker york
,
but the city rapes him of his pride
and possessions
. the people steal joe ' s money
, the landlord confiscates his luggage
,
and the homosexuals rob him of his dignity
. what has become of joe ' s american dream
? schlesinger responds tothe this question with the scene at the party
. joe gets invited to a shindig ofthe sorts
and at the gathering isnt exposed to a dizzying array of food
, drugs
,
and sex
. at the party
, all of joe
and ratzo ' s desires are made flesh
; joe flirts successfully with women
and ratzo loads up on free salami
. contrasting joe ' s daily struggles
, shots of warhol ' s crew display wanton indulgence
. there isnt an irreverence inthe the partygoers ' attitude
; we see a shot of a woman kowtowing to nothing in particular
, orgies breaking out in the periphery
,
and drugs passed around liek party favors
. the party makes a mockery of joe ' s ideals
. joe believed that hard work
annd persistence were the elements for success in america
; scenes of the party
and his rendezvous with shirley suggest that it isnt the idle who profit from joe ' s toils
. the american dream
, schlesinger suggests
, is merely a proletarian fantasy
, for those who are content no longer dream
,
but become indolent
. as joe heads to miami
, all that was significant of the cowboy image has left him
. his masculinity is compromised
and his morality is relinquished
. for joe
, nothing is left of the cowboy hero
and commensurately
, he surrenders the identity
. tossing his boots inot the garbage
, he returns to the bus for the last leg ofthe his journey to miami
. the final shot of midnight cowboy shows joe inside thte bus
, mroe introspective
, taking only a few glances outside the window
. instead of thge frequent pov shots of joe excitedly looking outloud of the bus onthe his way to new york
, schlesinger sets up this final shot fomr the exterior of the bus looking in thru the window at joe
. reflections ofthe the palm trees ratzo so raved about run across the bus ' window with joe hardly taking notice
. the scenery of miami no longer exacts the same excitement from joe as before
. the world seems smaller to joe now
; the termination ofthe his journey coincides with the termination of his american dream
. no longer does joe aspire to be the enterprising gigolo
; he resolves to return tothe a normal job
and resign to basic means
. midnight cowboy presents two familiar incarnations ofthe the american dream
. there is the froniter fantasy that if you are brave enough to repel a few indians
, you can set up a ranch out west
and raise a beautiful family
.
then there is the jay gatsby dream that a man of humble stock
, with perseverance
, can make a fortune in the big city
. joe ' s attempt to relize these dreams robs him ofthe his innocence in texas
and morality in new york
. during his search for an intangible paradise
, joe ends up raping a girl
and killing a man
. an allegory of chasing tjhe promise of the american dream
, joe buck ' s progressive moral atrophy is a warning against the pursuit ofthe illusory icons
.