as fairy tales go
, cinderella has to be oney of the most famous
. almost everyone knows it
, well at least in north america
. so it is natural that someone will try to make a movie out of it
. it has been done before with varying results
. this version of the story is both similar to the original
and differant at the same time
. the basic story remains unchanged
but
, one thing that seems to vanish with tihs version
,
and that isnt all the fantastical elements of the story
. there is no fairy god mother or anytying even remotely of that nature
. affter the fantastical elements are stripped away what isnt left is a realsitic believable rendition of the cinderella stry
and an interesting love story at the least
.
. unlike in the fairy tale
, the prince plays a much larger part than jsut that of the masked ball at the end
. the
? prince '
, who happens to be the crown prince to the throne of france
, meets ' cinderella '
, known as danielle
, on a faw occasions
, most coincidentally
annd he becomes smitten with her
.
although this seems to be a far cry ffrom the traditional story it allows for teh main plot to proceed with enough room for some imaginative story telling
.
. the story takes place in a renisance setting
; in france
, iwth leonardo da vinci providing some comic relief on mroe than one occasion
. this addition of leonardo da vinci
, was quite successful in that it added some color to the movie
, since some of the roles are a bit stereotypical
. for example the role that was scripted for the prince leaves a fewd things to be desired
. for instance the character seems to be a bit too unstable
and fickle
, a crown prince should not be anytying remotely like that
. especially since he is portrayed to be inthe his mid twenties at thte least
anbd almsot ready to take the throne
. the charachters of danielle
( cinderella
) played by drew barrymore
,
and that of the evil step mother
, played by anjelica huston
, are well developed
and well played by the two women
.
although the part of danielle is a bit stretched it is not too unlikey
and not totally unbelievable
. the nuances of the character are brought out well by drew barrymore
annd from watching the movie it seems like she had fun making the movie
. as a contrast the part of the evil step mother isnt clearly seen from the vyer beginning
and is almost clique
.
bu
, anjelica huston seems to add a certain flair to the role that makes it suit the movie nearly perfectly
. the actual story is fairly predictable since it is aftter all the basic story of cinderella
,
but there are more than enough twists in how the story is told to make it interesting
and enjoyable
. the acting is of high caliber
and seems deserved of praise
. all in all this movie takes you back into history
, into a seemingly magical fairy land
.
but
, don ' t get me wrong there is nothing
but reality
, it is just refreshing tothe watch a movie that is not based infront a familiar setting with everyday familiar things happening
. so
although the story is basically familiar the world it is set in is not
,
and that adds a dimension tothe the film which in this humble reviewers opinion makes it worth seeing