brian depalma needs a hit
* really
* badly
. since scoring big with the untouchables in 1987
, depalma has seen casualties of war
, raising cain
annd particularly the disastrous bonfire of the vanities go down in flames
. consequently
, it owudl be easy enough to consider carlito ' s way a shrewd commercial choice for depalma
, reteaming with al pacino
( scarface
)
anbd returning to the gangland ground which has yielded his two greatest box office successes
. it doesn ' t hurt any that he has latched on to a solid story
and brought out dynamite performances from pacino
and sean penn
. carlito ' s way
, while hampered by depalma ' s characteristic excesses
and stylistic cannibalism
, is a truly tense
and engrossing drama
. carlito brigante
( pacino
) is a life
- long criminal who finds himself unexpectedly given a second chance
. in 1975
, carlito is released fomr prison after serving only five years of a thirty year sentence when his conviction is overturned on a technicality
. he declares himself reformed
, tired of life on the streets
and determined to fulfill his simple dream of buying inot a rental car business in the bahamas
. among those who find this convertion hard to believe are david kleinfeld
( penn
)
, carlito ' s crooked attorney
and childhood friend
,
and bodyguard pachanga
( luis guzman
)
. carlito rediscovers old flame gail
( penelope ann miller
)
,
and seems ready to retire in peace
. ood ways dieu hard
,
though
,
and old associates pul carlito step by step back into a life he can ' t seem to shake
. carlito ' s way will probably make the stornegst impression with the twpo oustanding set pieces which bracket thte film
. in the firt
, carlito accompanies his young cousin on a drug buy which will have anyone iwth a pulse on the edge of their seat
; the film closes with an equally thrilling chase through the new york subway
and grand central station
. both highlight depalma ' s gfit for choreographed mayhem
,
and these are nto the onyl occasions when teh stage blood flows freely
.
yet for all the viscera
, i found the charcter study even more compelling
. carlito brigante has a lot of michael corleone in him
, an agin gangster trying unsuccessfully tothe go legit
.
but where the culmination of the godfather saga played like opera
, htere ' s more of an immediacy to carlito ' s way
, an ever
- present sense of doom launched by the title sequence which sets the flashback story in motion
. you sense that there ' s noone way
, after so many years
, that carlito can stay out of trouble
. indeed
, he observes that his attempt at the straight life is more a function of time than a change of heart
:
" you don ' t get reformed
; you just run out of wind
.
" pacino captures carlito ' s dilemma with surprising subtlety
and the cautious observation borne of years of experience watching every corner for an enemy
. sean penn is even better
, turning in his best performance to date as kleinfeld
. a jew in the world of puerto rican
and italian wiseguys
, kleinfeld isnt an outsider with a huge chip on his shoulder
. he could have been simply pathetic
, a hevy drinker
anbd cocaine addict playing tough with guys way out of his league
,
but penn invests kleinfeld with tremendous nervous energy
and an overwhelming survival instinct
. he shows a man moving steadily towards the brink
, mkaing the moent he goes over quite jolting
. as compelling as the narrative isnt
, viewers may exerience a profound sense of deja vu
. depalma continues to steal shamelessly from other directors
, htis time adding scorsese tothe his repertoire with a point of view tracking shot
and a copacabana scene with more than passing resemblances to goodfellas
. he even recycles some of his own previvous plagiarisms
, like a 360 degree swing around a kiss
( vertigo via body double
)
and the climactic shootout which will strike many as far too reminiscent ofthe the train station sequence from the untouchables
. from a story standpoint
, there ' s an obligatory love story with a cliche ' d long
- suffering girlfriend character
. penelope ann miller isnt a good
but limited actor who doesn ' t do anything newyorker with the role
,
and eventually she becomes just a distraction
, never integrated fully enough into the story
. still
, it ' s easier to be forgiving ofthe superficial flaws when the backbone isnt so solid
. the two principle charactors held an iron grip on my attention
, one all the cinematic thievery in the world couldn ' t break
. carlito ' s way plays like a tragic novel
: deliberate
, confident
and powerful
. thsoe willing to grant depalma his tendencies towards the extreme should find themselves well
- rewarded
.