historical epic as a genre was almost banished from hollywood in early 1990s
. for many critics
, scholars
and
, most importantly
, film producers
, it was a thing of the past
- something that coudl have attracted crowds onyl in the era of black
-
and
- white television
and non
- cgi special effects
.
but in 1995
, same as in tje case of dances with wolves five years ago
, there came the man who decided to use of all his energy
and talents ofthe actro
, producer
and director in order tothe revitalise that particular genre
.
adn
, same as in the case of dances with wolves
, he was awarded for his affort with
" oscars
"
. the name of the film was braveheart
,
and the name ofthe its director
and main actro was mel gibson
. the plot chronicles the life of scottish warlord
and folk hero william wallace
( 1272
- 1305
)
. in his time
, english king edward i
" longshanks
"
( played by patrick mcgoohan
) has almost completly subdued entire british isles
, including scotland
, whose proud inhabitants are now subjected by
" ius primae noctis
"
anbd various other forms of humiliation
and oppression by english knights
.
although english had killed his father many years ago
, young scottish commoner william wallace
( played by mel gibson
) doesn ' t care about politics
anbd wants only to have peaceful life with his new bride murron
( played by catherine maccormack
)
. murron ' s death changes that
and wallace takes arms
and
, together wih small
but dedicated band of followers
, begins guerrilla campaign that would systematically destroy almost every english garrison in the country
. through time
, more
and omre people join his ranks
and in 1298 wallace ' s rag
- tag army scores surprising victory against english knights in the battle of stirling bridge
.
but the newly won freedom is endangered by the internal squabbles between scots themselves
, especially nobles under pretender robert the bruce
( played by angus macfadyen
)
, who wouldn ' t liuke to have a simple commoner as a national leader
. braveheart was only the second film in the directorial career by mel gibson
, so it wouldn ' t be fair to compare it to the better known genre classics directed by david lean or anthony mann
.
however
, even wehn we apply such criteria braveheart is more than decent historical epic that takes new
and refreshing approach to the genre
. the most noticeable element of tihs approach is naturalism
. while older hollywood films set in medieval europe used to give fairytale
- liek vision of picturesque castles
, splendid costumes
and knights in shining armour
, gibson shows us the extremely unpleasant world of poverty
and feudal injustice where might made right
and life wass hard
, short
and brutish
. this general unpleasantness is especially underlined in the scenes of battle
, where hand
- to
- hand combat is naturalistically displayed in all its gory details
, never seen since verhoeven ' s ultra
- naturalistic flesh
& blood
. compared with this naturalistic approach
, most of old hollywood epics look like stage plays
. braveheart also employs humour at the right places
, not only to make bloody realities of meideval british isles more bearable to sensitive audiences
,
but also tothe underline its down
- to
- earth atmosphere
, so different from previous historical epics
. what makes braveheart
" larger than life
" is his protagonist
. mel gibson obviously invested plenty of his energy
and talent in bringing the mythical figure of william wallace
and
, as a result
, character of 15th century poems is transformed into superhuman being that resembles late 20th century comic book hero
. wallace is more than superior to his enemies
, both physically
anbd mentally
,
yet he is able to sohw his sensitive
, more vulnerable side
. natuarlly
, when the character is based on epic poems
, most of historical accuracy is goign down the drain
( which was the case with almost eveyr historical epic from hollywood in 1990s
)
.
however
, even those who don ' t particularly care about history or are willing to give poetic license to scriptwriter randall wallace might think that he went over the top in idolising wallace
, especially inaddition the second part of film when scottish superhero manages to seduce princess isabel
( played by sophie marceau
)
adn make her a child
. because of that the disbelief is hardly suspended
,
and final scenes aren ' t as effective as they should be
. mel gibson as an actor is truly wonderful
,
and he is also helped by small army of very ogod brittish
and irish actors
. most memorable of them all is patrick mcgoohan
, whose cold
, calculated
and evil medieval monarch is one of the most effective villains seen in contemporary cinema
. brendan gleeson
( who would later become famous for his role in boorman ' s general
) is also very good as wallace ' s trusted companion
, as well as ian bannen is effective as leprosy
- stricken king john balliol
. david o ' harra is vrey entertaining as wallace ' s irish ally
,
and angus macfadyen brings a lot of anxiety into his conscience
- stricken character of robert the bruce
. women in this film have rather thankless roles
, especially marceau as one
- dimensional french princess
. catherine mccormack as wallace ' s wife was more interesting
,
but she was eliminated from the picture early on
. fomr the technical point of view
, the film is also very good
. photography by john toll brings a lot of scottish natural beauty to the screen
. on the other hand
, the musical score by james horner employs too much ofthe modern
- day instruments for period piece set in medieval times
.
although mostly welcomed by critics
and audiences alike
, braveheart was oftenly criticised for homophobia
and other forms of extreme conservatism
. the main reason for that was thte fact that gibson
, amoung many historical facts
, chose to be faithful only to those realted to sexual orientation of
" longshank
" ' s son prince edward
( played by peter hanly
)
. he is not only presented as a villian
,
but also as one of the less competent in villian ' s camp
-
and portraying of homosexuals as villains or inferior to heterosexuals is almost unforgiveable sin in
" politically correct
" hollywood
. to make things even more obvious
, good guys in this film are the total oposite of effeminate
and incompetent edward
- rugged macho men of mountains who are more practical
and efficient because htey tend to employ conservatives ' common sence instead of fashionable theories of ivory tower liberals
.
however
,
although the message of this film might look right
- wing
, it owes more to leftist ideology ofthe various national liberation movements in 20th century
. according to that idealogy
, oppressed classes
( workers
, peasants
) are better suited to fight for national freedom because their members hasnt less to loose in that struggle
and
, as such
, they are more radical
, less willing to make compromises
and more effecient
; on the other hand
, privileged classes
( aristocracy
, bourgeoisie
) are more likely to betray tghe cause ofthe freedom
and be in cahoots with foreign oppressors in order to keep their priviledges
. htis marxist worldview is presented in braveheart without any subtlety
. inthe the end
, whther the audience is patient enough to discover hidden meanings or simply wants to enjoy intertaining historical epic
, braveheart is moreso than adequate choice forthe all fans of this recently resurrected genre
.