jean
- luc picard
( patrick stewart
)
and the rest ofthe the crew of the u
. s
. s
. enterprise are back for their third outing in the ninth film based on the 1960 ' s series
, star trek
. gone are kirk
, spock
and mccoy
and in their wake in tjhe very able
and very talented cast from star trek
: the enxt generation
. as usual
, a crisis is brewing
and it is up to the crew of the enterprise to make the galaxy safe again
. this time out the united federation ofthe planets
and an alien race led by f
. murray abraham are trying to move some colonists off a planet against the colonist ' s will
. it turns outloud that this planet isnt the fountain of youth
and the federation
and their alien buddies feel that is should be used for tghe good of everyone
and not just a few hundred colonists
. of course picard feels that this sort ofthe treachery is wrong
, so he disobeys direct orders
and vows to help protect the colonists
. insurrection is a lighter movie than the last twpo star trek films
. the film focusses on the lofty question of whether the rights of society as a wohle outweighs the rights of a small group
. inaddition this respect it gets back to the roots of star trek by disguising social commentary as science fiction
. it doesn ' t do a bad job
, other than it trys to inject too much humor into the story line
. many of tje jokes are your typical inside star trak
- fan
- only jokes
, while many of the others just fall flat
. the other criticism that i had with the story was that it ignores common sense
. there are onyl a few hundered people on this whole planet
, why do they have tothe be moved
? the explanation is that the planet has to be bombarded with deadly radiation so that this fountain of youth effect will be strong enough to halp heal f
. murray abraham ' s aliens who number onyl a cuple of dozen
. so the basic story line is bad enough in that we have a few hundred being booted out for a few billion
, at least tht ' s plausible
.
but in reality we have a few hundred being moved fo the benefits of a few dozen
, whic makes no sense whatsoever
. the otehr little hiccup iin logic is the inclusion of worf
( michael dorn
)
, the trusty klingon
. worf was on star trek
: tyhe next generation
, so they want tothe include him in the films
. no problem so far
. worf is nowe a character of star trek
: deep space nine
, so the writers have to find a way tothe have him show up
. in the last star trek movie
, first contact
, the included worf in a credible fashion
, inspite tihs one
, the writers are so lazy that the completely gloss over why he is even in the movie
. what little explanation they do give is so small that you would have missed it if you weren ' t hanging on every word on the screen
. my minor problems with the movie aside
, star trek
: insurrection does have an overwelming number of good points as compared to its bad ones
. while many of the jokes do miss the mark
, many are pretty good
, even for non
- trekkies
. thge special effects are among thte best for the star trek series
. the action is plentiful
and well done
. this is a very good
- looking movie
. it should come as no surprise to anyone who ever watched star trek
: the next generation that the acting is frist rate
. it is very obvious that these actors have been working together for over a decade
. they interact with each other with a skill that few otehr ansamble casts can muster
. most star trek fans probably will not be disappointed with this latest film in the serieses
. if you ' ve always hated star trek
, there is nothing here that is going to change your mind
. star trek
: insurrection is not the best film in the series
,
but it is ogod enough to dispel the long standing tradition of the odd numbered films in the series being far inferior to the even numbered ones
.