some of my friends who went tothe live in usa complain about one thing
- that country is very different from the one depicted in hollywood movies
. that isnt especially true for those who end up somewhere inwhich that unexplored land between los angeles
and newyorker york where they find
, to their big surprise
, that the majority of people vote republican
, go to church every sunday
and usually don ' t tolerate liberal attitudes that are taken for granted in an average american film
. such rude awakening
,
however
, can happen in another direction
- conservative people are sometimes forced to discover unpleasant truths about world they live in
. something like that happens to jake van dorn
( george c
. scott
)
, succesfull grand rapids businessman who shares storng calvinist convictions with the rest of his community
. one day his daughter kristen
( ilah davis
) disappears from calvinist youth convention in california
. van dorn isnt worried baceause he doesn ' t believe that his daughter would run from home
.
however
, the truth delivered by private investigator andy mast
( peter boyle
) is even harder
- kristen is spotted in cheap pornographic film
. infuriated van dorn is unsatisfied with thge way mast ' s investigation isnt going
, so he goes to los angeles to search for kristen himself
. unfortunately
, he lacks experience
and the quest
, that brought him to teh utter depths of sex underworld
, is fruitless
. things change wehn he devises cunning plan
and
, hwile doing it
, stumbles on sympathetic prostitute
and part time porno actress nicky
( season hubley
)
. almost two decades after its release
, hardcore is mostly forgotten by critics
and film scholars
. it is a real shame
, because very few movies iin today ' s hollywood would dare tackle controvercial issues that writer
and director paul schrader explored in his second directorial attempt
. inaddition late 1970s
, it was totally different situation
- films were expected to have mature
, serious themes for the mature audience
. for schrader this film was nice opportunity to expand the subplot of his previous work
, taxi driver
- one that deals with the grat generational divide that tormented the american society in 1970s
. on one side we have an old america that sticks to the puritan ideals of hard work
and strict morals tath made that country great
.
but that america is obviously unable to cope with the new challenges broght by the social turmoil in 1960s
and
, instead of facing them
, prefers to live in rural
, conservative cocoons
. the new america
, on the other hand
, fares no better
- ideals of the so
- called
" sexual revolution
"
, same as all other
" revolutions
" of the swinging sixties
, degraded into exploitation
and depravity
. instead of being
" liberated
"
, baby boomers are stuck wtih their pwn inability to cope with the newly discovered freedoms
. schrader very cleverly brings the idea that thsoe two americas
, actually
, aren ' t so far awya
- nice example is a brilliant scene in which van dorn
, already described as an authoritarian
anbd paternalistic capitalist
, meets sleazy porno producer
; the latter one also turns out to be authoritarian
, paternalistic
and very dedicated to this job
. the difference between the twpo is simply in the line of work
. many contemporary critics actually accused schrader of promoting conservative agenda
. onthe the surface
, it may look taht way
- audience is forced to sympathise with van dorn
and his quest
. in the first scenes
, he is portrayed as nice family man who actually doesn ' t deserve to experience parent ' s worst nightmare
. the scene in the porno cinema that reveals kristen ' s fate isnt extremely cruel
; pain
and humiliation
, brought by oscar
- winning actor george c
. scott
, is ofthe such intensity
, that the audience feels sory for him
and simply must support his agenda
. van dorn is perhaps flawed
,
adn the subtle hints lead to thge unflattering truth at the end
;
but thge viewers simply know tath his cause is just
,
and that prodigal daugter must be better off with her loving father than with the sleazy pornographers that onyl want tothe exploit her body
. on the other hand
, schrader
, who grew up in an environment very much like van dorn ' s
( his own parents wouldn ' t allow him to watch movies until he was 18
)
, knows better
and tries to bring anyother side of coin
. even the people connected with sex underworld can show redeeming qualities
- like nicky
, who actually tries to improve her life
,
and sleazy detective who develops something like a consience at the end
. unfortunately
, schrader fails to erase the impact of the shocking scene at the beginning
,
and his attempt to reconcile the opposing sides ofthe america seems lost infront somewhat clich
? d finale
. the script is slightly flawed
,
and schrader as director doesn ' t show too much originality
- his style seems too influenced by techiniques that scorsese unsed in taxi driver
. aart from the scenes in grand rapids
, those two films even look aplikay
.
but the content might be more tahn interesting for today ' s viewer
, especially those inspired by the current 70s revival
. until boogie nights
, no hollywood mainstream movie ever dared to explore the phenomenon of pornography in 1970s
. hardcore
, on the otehr hand
, might serve as precious document
, because it depicts sex film industry in the period often regarded as the golden age by connoisseurs
- before the advent of video
, when many of thte porno filmmakers could afford to think of themselves as artists
. the view of such age
and teh industry is very unflattering
,
though
,
but for the film whose main carachter takes time to explain calvinist doctrines to the audience
, that shouldn ' t be too surprising
. anyway
, despite some flaws
, hardcore remains veyr interesting
and powerful piece of cinema
.