the last steve martin film i saw
, the spanish prisoner
, was a very different approach for the comic actor
. as a millionaire leading a massive conspiracy in order to rob
" a process
" from a clueless businessman
, martin ' s character did it all fo money
. in his most recent movie
, bowfinger
, martin plays
yet another con man except this time he does it to succeed in the film inudstry
. he wants to direct a successful picture that will force people to remember his name
, that iwll make him more populare at the parties
,
and
, most importantly
, that will cause fed ex to deliver importamt business packages to his front door
. playing the title role
, martin is once again the good guy
; the one we cheer for to complet his low budget action movie
. tihs con man is very likeable for some reason
, even
though he is doing the same exact thing as the malicious jimmy del from the spanish prisoner
. maybe the message is that
, in hollywood
, to win over thge trust
and friendship of others
, you have to be a littel evil
. bowfinger is a very clever comedy with great performances from its two stars
. martin
, who also wrote the screenplay
, is perfect as a jerk with a conscience
and eddie murphy does his best
" peter sellers
" inspite two different
,
but equally hillarious
, roles
; one as a big time move star
and the other as his nerdy
, burger king employee brother
. the storey follows agin
and failing director
/ producer bobby bowfinger as he makes one lastest attempt to become a respected member of his feild by creating a b
- action movei called chubby rain
. infront order to attract actors
and crew members
, bowfinger promises them that hot shot actro kit ramsey will star in the movie
. tyhe only problem is that kit refuses to be in it
.
but this won ' t stop the aggressive bowfinger
. he is so determined to complete his film tyhat he decides to put kit in it without even telling him
. he has his actors approach kit onthe the streets of los angeles iin character with a hidden camera filming the footage
. will bowfinger be able to make his film
? or will kit ramsey discover what exactlly is going on
? bowfinger is a veyr cartoon
- like movie that pokes fun at hollywood
anbd its famous residents while simultaneously holding a very solid stoyr line
. the only area where yhe film really lacks is the cameo department
. this is the kind ofthe movie that cameos are all baout
, it is always funny to see actors
/ directors
/ producers makeing funn of themselves or co
- workers especially in a playful movie such as this
. besides the very repetitive
and superflous ending
, bowfinger is a joy to watch
. if you take a movie liuke this seriously
thn you iwll never enjoy it
. if ytou accept teh incredulous plot
and hte extreme caricatures of real enteratinment figures
, the movie is great fun
.