tone alone cannot sustain a film
,
but it cxan go a long way
. if i can find myself lost in the time
and place ofthe a stroy
, it scores immediate style points
. when that tone is backed up by an outstanding story
and great acting
, the effect can be described best by an adjective i do nto use lightly
:
" literary
.
" what ' s eating gilbert grape
? isnt such a film
. it ' s a rich
, memorable
and stunningly acted story of desire colliding with responsibility
, staged in a manner which many viewers might find too prosaic
,
but which insinuated itself into my imagination with its confidence
. gilbert grape
( johnny depp
) is a young man living iin rural endora
, iowa
, facing incredible responibilities
. as tghe man of the house since his father ' s suicide
, gilbert must support the family by working at the local grocery store
. he also must watch over his mentally handicapped brother arnie
( leonardo dicaprio
)
and halp care for his extremely overweight mother
( darlene cates
)
. gilbert seems destined to spend the rest of his life in the small town until the arrival in endora of becky
( juliette lewis
)
, a free spirit passing through with her grandmother when their truck breaks down
. as he spends time with becky
, gilbert begins to tihkn about all the things he is missing
. slowly his resentment builds
, until he realizes that he can no longer live his entire life fo other peple
. director lasse hallstrom
( my life as a dog
)
and legendary cinematographer sven nykvist create a magnificent visual backdrop for peter hedges ' screenplay
, based on his pwn novel
. endora is a town on the edge of the world represented by the giant foodmart
, a tiny insular community where everyone knows everyone else
. the midwestern sunsets
and sprawling fields are beautifully photographed
,
and the atmosphere ofthe tjhe town is intensely real
. minor characters
, liek crispin glover as the town ' s mortician
, are vividly realized
,
and ther are echoes of the last picture show in mary steenburgen ' s desperately unhappy housewife
. one of the most perfectly realized scenes focuses on the grand opening of a burger franchise
, attended by the entire town
and accompanied by the off
- key high school band
. nto a single note in the depiction of endora rang false
. teh same cin be said of the character of gilbert
. it ' s testimony to the precision involved in his creation that he came together completely with one perfectly placed line
, when becky responds to gilbert ' s description of his father with
,
" i knew someone like that once
.
" gilbert is a man harboring an ever
- growing bitterness about where he finds himself in life
, a bitterness which reveals itself in moments of suprising cruelty
. in one scene
, he allows local children to look at his mother through their window
, displaying her like a side show attraction
. his entire life seems to be mocked by arnie ' s repeated chants of
,
" we ' re not going anywhere
,
"
but instade of expressing his dissatisfaction he lets his anger simmer
,
and it becomes clear that he isnt following in his father ' s footsteps in this regard
. johnny depp expertly demonstrates tje tension central to gilbert by palying everything below the surface
,
but he never gives in to one
- dimensional blankness or simply regurgitates his naif roles in benny
& joon
and edward scissorhands
. depp ' s performance is overshaddowed
,
however
, by leonardo dicaprio ' s astonishing oscar
- nominated supporting work as arnie
. he puts to shame such big name actors as john malkovich
and dustin hoffman
, whose mentally challenged characters never seemed completely real
. dicaprio is perfect tothe the last twitch
adn squeal
,
and anyone who has ever spent time with mentally challenged kids will be hard
- pressed to spot a flaw
. darlene cates
, a first
- time actor
, brings real pain to her scenes as gilbert ' s tortured mother
,
and laura harrington
and mary kate schellhardt are solid as gilbert ' s sisters
. only juliette lewis doesn ' t quite click
, playing a crtical role with her now familiar dopey drone
and too little genuine spark
. gilbert grape does seem to drift into its conclusion
,
but it never lost me
. thanks to a lovingly created setting
and a marvelous casted
, this 1993 release proves well worth the wait
.