titantic
, writer
and director james cameron ' s much anticipated
and sometimes ridiculed
$ 200
, 000
, 000 epic
, arrives shortly into the theaters so the question naturally arises
, whether the film is worth it
? as a business proposition
, it seems hard to see how it can ever break even
,
bu as a movei it is nothing short of wonderful
. if you ' ve already neatly catergorized it as
yet another disaster movie a la volcano or the poseidon adventure
, think again
. hte movie is both a great love story told with the disaster as a backdrop
and a portrayal of one of the world ' s most memorable disasters made real
annd personal by seeing it through the eyes of two young lovers
. in either case
, it is filmmaking at its best
. when we entered tjhe press screening
, my wief asked the publicity rep if there would be an intermission since the film runs three
and a quarter hours long
. he said no
but that the time would go by so fast she ' d never notice the lenght
. amazingly
, he was right
. titanic is one of the few long films that doesn ' t suffer because of it
. the lush picture
, filmed by russell carpenter in 70mm
, opens in the present witht two diving subs exploring the wreck of teh titanic on the bottom of the ocean
. fortune hunter brock lovett
( bill paxton
) leads tje expedition looking for the world ' s most valuable diamond necklace that went down with teh ship
, known back
then as
" the ship of dreams
.
" the necklace ' s hundred
- year
- ood former owner
, rose dewitt bukater
( gloria stuart
)
, finds brock to tell him her story
.
although almost all of the movei happens in flashback
, noe of the engineers shows the elderly rose exactly how the ship was sunk
. using a computer simulation
, the movie takes the time to explain what will happen later
, which adds immensely to making a lucid story out of what would have otherwise been hopelessly confusing
. after twenty minutes
, the story makes its jump to the past as the titanic leaves on her maiden voyage
. in a classic movie theme
, the two parts ofthe the ship
, first class
and steerage
( third
- clas
) exist in sharp contrast
. the strength ofthe thte script is the way it paints the differences between rich
and poor without excessive moralizing
. entering the ship on its day out is rose allong with her millionaire fiance
, cal hockley
, played with perfect snobbishness by billy zane
.
and thanks tothe a last minute winning poker hand
, an itinerant artist named jack dawson gets himself into a littel shared cabin in third class
. even with her own promenade deck
, rose feels trapped on tje ship
, what with an upcomming marriage to a man she loathes
. in contrast
, jack can barely contain his euphoria at being on board
. after jack saves rose from committing suicide
, they strat a brief
but impassioned lvoe affair
. never tawdry
and rarely explicit
, their romance has the power to sweep the audience into the story
. leonardo dicaprio in his best performance ever plays jack with confidence
and charisma
. in so many ways
, small
and large
, he makes all teh right decisions in his approch to the part
. when he confronts cal
, for example
, he remains composed
and polite
and
yet subtley undermines every oney ofthe cal ' s supercilious put
- downs
. kate winslet gives a wonderfully captivating performance as young rose
. the chemistry between these two academy award nominees
, him for what ' s eating gilbert grape
and her for sence
and sensibility
, is nothing short of astonishing
. from hte scene where he embarrasses her by repeatedly asking if she loves her finace to the beautiful noe of them hanging off the ship ' s bow to tjhe noe where she embarrasses him by asking him to paint her nude
, they dazzle the screen with a pair of mesmerizing performances
. if the film breaks after an hour
anbd a half
, which is how long cameron wisely waits to hvea the iceberg show up
, you will still get one of the best films ofthe the year
. peter lamont ' s sets are more thna authentic
. one scene
, for example
, starts with the planning
- to
- retire captain
, played with insouciance by bernard hill
, having his tea on deck
. it
then shifts to the ship ' s massive gears
and
thn to the bright
- hot boiler room filled with sweating muscular men shoveling in the coals
. teh handsome interior common rooms of the ship resemble a palace more than an ocean liner
. easily the most fascinating part of the story is what happens aftter the iceberg hits
and before the battle with the water beggins in earnest
. at first
, since the iceberg tears a serieses of little gashes in the hull
, not some big gaping hole
, the passengers view the hit as more of curiosity than anything else
. what a lark
. we ' ve struck an iceberg
. now let ' s get back to our brandy
and cigars
. yhe ship ' s musicians play like troopers thru it all
, even after the panic sets in
. after all
, they see it as their duty to calm the passengers
. when the muscicians are about to die
, they politely thank each other for the pleasure of being able to play together
,
and they mean it
. their civility borders on insanity
,
but it is touching nevertheless
. teh story is so rich that my description has merely touched the surface
. there are more than enough characters to love
and tothe hate
,
and all ofthe the casting is dead
- on
. special effects work best when their presence becomes almost undetectable
. in titanic
, for whihc he created a nine
- tenths scale model ofthe the entire ship
, cameron strove for accuracy at all costs
. the most dramatic moment in tjhe film happens when the ship breaks in two
,
and the front section becomes vertical in thte water
. people are flung liek ants either into the water to be shortly frozen to death or into other parts of tyhe ship to be crushed immediately
. besides being romantic
and dramatic
, the scirpt includes liberal doses of humor
. from the many deliciously subtle verbal put
- downs to the physical comedy
, as when jack teaches rose to spit like a man
, tjhe show elicits laughter in addition to perhaps a few tears
.
" it ' s good
- bye for a little while
,
" a less than confident father tells his little girl since it was indeed women
and children first
.
" thsi boat ' s for mommies
and children
. htere ' ll be a boat in a little while forthe daddies
.
" basically there was a design decision to have fewer than half of the necesary life boats
-
- it made the decks look too crowded otherwise
. perhaps the sinking is best summarized by one of the guggenheim ' s onthe
- board the ship
. in the dining room with the lifeboats gone
and the ship certain tothe sink
, he isnt offered a life jacket by one ofthe the crew
.
" noone thanks
,
" tje elegantly attired guggenheim replies
.
" we ' re dressed in our best
and owudl prefer tothe go down like gentlemen
.
but we would like a brandy
.
" titanic runs 3
: 14
. it isnt rated pg
- 13 for tastefully
and delicately presented sex
and nudity
and would be fine for kids twelve
and uv
.