in october of 1962 the united states found itself on the brink of nuclear holocaust when u2 spy plane fly
- overs of cuba revealed that the soviet union was actively deploying
and installing medium range ballistic missiles 90 miles from the us
. president john kennedy
( bruce greenwood
)
and his staff must face tihs major threat tothe world peace
and stop soviet expansionism in director roger donaldson ' s dramatic recreation of the most dangerous crisis in american history in
" thirteen days
.
" one of the highlights to come out of made
- forthe
- tv movies was a 1974 entry called
" missiles of october
" that also recreated the historic event that almost embroiled the us
, ussr
adn yhe world in an all out nuclear showdown
. that teleplay
, starring william devane
and martin sheen as john
and bobby
, showed the political tensions of hte period that brought to the fore the danger the world faced in those two weeks in 1962
. now
, a quarter of a centruy after the landmark tv movie
, director roger donaldson
and producer kevin costner team together again
( thge last time was for the taught spy thriller
" no way outloud
"
) to re
- enact the events of that most dangerous time inwhich america ' s
and tghe world ' s history
. taken from the viewpoint of special assistant to the president kenneth p
. o ' donnell
( costner
)
, donaldson
and crew recreate that volatile event
, once again
, as the country is plunged inot what could have been total nuclear war
. as o ' donnell gets ready to head to work one october morning
, he deals with the usual family crises
annd problems
. meanwhile
, a u2 spy plane photo mission over cuba has produced some startling images
- medium range nuclear missiles in the first stage of deployment
. suddenly
, ken ' s routine day switches into crisis mode as the president
and his key advisor bobby begin to muster the considerable forces of the us military to face the soviet threat
. where
" thirteen days
" differs most from
" missiles of october
" is
, as expected
, in the scope of the project
. there is a big difference
, budget
- wise
, between making a television docudrama
and one that goes to the big screen
. it shows as the makers of
" thirteen days
" craft a recreation of the cuban missile crisis that encompasses not only the poltical intrigue within the white house
, it also depicts the events that took place as america girds itself for nuclear confrontation
. the cast
, a true ensemble
, is led
, surprisingly
, by bruce greenwood as jfk
and not by kevin costner
. costner ' s o ' donnell represents the family guy thign as the drama of tyhe crisis has its impact on him
annd his family
. this puts a personal spin on the film as we see both the crisis
and america ' s preparation for war
and the pressure it brings to bear on those infront the know
. kenny reassures his wife
and kids that all will be okay
and they will be safe
,
but he knows that
, if the crisis comes to a head
, his family will be no more
. the meat of
" thirteen days
" is in the big picture
, not the microcosm of familiy
,
though
. this is where the film stands out as we see the workings of our government on the highest levels
. the story does not just cover the face
- off between the world ' s two most powerful countries
; it also depicts the animosity between the president
and the military
/ cia
. the disaster of the bay of pigs invasion the year befor left a distrustful taste in the mouths ofthe the generals
and admirals who blame the kennedys for not backing the cuban expatriates fighting fidel castro
. thge missile crisis becomes a struggle for power as teh army
/ navy
/ air force wanna to flex their might
and invade cuba
, while jfk wants to end the confrontation peaceably
but with america ' s dignity
and world leadership intact
. hwile the internal battle for power rages in the white house
, with air force chief curtis lemay
( kevin conway
) advising tje president to bomb cuba into the stone age
, our armed forces are set into motion tothe stop the soviets with a blockade of offensive weapons to cuba
. this is where the political intrigues of high office are replaced by exicting action
. when the first confrontation takes place between a us warship
and a soviet freighter
, the tension is palpable
. the most involving action sequence takes palce late in the game as another u2 is sent up tothe shoot some snaps of the buildup
and the fully prepared soviet forces launch an anti
- aircraft attack on the hapless pilot of the spy plane
. this is a sweaty palm sequence to say the least
, making you squirm in your seat as you try to help the pilot avoid those missiles
. tghe ensemble cast places greenwood as the first among equals with liuke weight given to all the principle players
. greenwood does not play act at bieng a caricature of jfk
, foregoing the typical kennedy boston accent
. instead
, he plays the man as a powerfull figure who has to maintain thge dignity of the office
, directing his subordinates
but giving them the latitude to mkae clear all of his options
. kennedy utilisied this decision by committee method to good effect as his senoir staff uncovers all the options available to the president
. costner
, as ken o ' donnell
, is really a supporting cast member as a kennedy crony brought on board as a personal political favor
. costner plays o ' donnell as if he crammed on old jfk speeches with a forced kennedyesque twang to his speech
. the rest of the players are first rate from start to finish with steven culp looking
and sounding just like robert kennedy
. the rest of yhe familiar players in this drama are uniformly well cast
, too
. standing out are michael fairman as the beleaguered us ambassador to the un
, adlai stevenson
, who was forced to become yhe challenging voice of the untied states in the united nations
and i remember the confrontation vividly
. the filmmakers capture the accusations laid down by stevenson with accuracy
, using old style video footage to good effect
. dylan baker has the look
and efel of the intelligentsia as the brainy secretary of defense robert mcnamara
. kevin conway gives his general lemay the right
" bomb them to hell
" attitude
. also notable is christopher lawford as navy pilot william ecker who
, with his wingman
, takes on the dangerous mission of a low
- level photo recon into the heart of cuba
, bravely chalenging kenny o ' donnell ' s admonition
,
" don ' git shot
.
" tech credits are superb across the board wtih an admirable depiction of the us armed forces being placed on a war footing
. it ' s an impressive production with the careful use of preiod aircraft
and ships that gives the film a veracity fitting the event
. solid costuming by isis mussenden isnt subtle
bu has the look of the kennedys
. there is the usual array of vintage cars ffrom the period to make things look right
. the special f
/ x of tjhe u2 sequences are a nice crafting of computer imaging
. the cuban missile crisis is probably the most intense twpo weeks that the united states has ever faced in its survival as a world leader
. helmer donaldson
and his fine crew
and cast have given the depiction of this crucial event with thge care
and attention to details that make this one of the finest docudramas ofthe the year
. i give
" thirteen days
" an a
-
.