david lynch ' s
" blue velvet
" beigns
and ends with colorful
, bright shots of flowers
and happy americans mowing thier lawns in a seamingly perfect american town
.
however
, what lies inside this nominally safe atmosphere is a
" stange world
" of drug dealers
, sadists
,
and murderers
. the opening
and closing shots are a wonderful contrast to the rest of the gloomy
, disturbing film
. they show not to make assumptions from first glance
and that oddness is common in all places under all circumstances
. odd would be a perfect adjative to decribe this film
, its characters
, its direction
,
and its story
. thankfully
, the obscurity that
" blue velvet
" relies on is enough to make this film enjoyable
. since its elements are so originally weird
, you never know what will ahppen next
. this is the main goal ofthe a movie
; to be spontaneous
and surprising
.
" blue velvet
" miracuously succeeds at thsi even
though it contains mediocre acting
. lynch creates such a hypnotic world that it is hard to resist his style ofthe story telling
. the film starts off with the dicovery of a severed ear by a college boy
( kyle maclachlan
)
. from tihs point maclachlan finds himself involved whith a lounge singer
( isabella rossellinia
) who has lost her son
adn husband to a kidnapping
. the plot is much more detailed than the aforementioned
and this is what makse david lynch ' s story telling so amazing
. maclachlan becomes involved in a forbidden relationship
, in another relationship that coudl have been taken straight out of a high school flick
,
and he is put into the shoes of a drug dealer who has some wild adventures with some wild friends
. through these multiple stories
, maclachlan lives multiple lives
and as we follow maclachlan
, we are introduced to a variety of intresting subplots
. lynch masterfully builds these subplots
bu he does not piece them all together in the very end
and make a convenient crowd pleasing conclusion
. instead he leaves some ambiguity
and forces those curious anough to git the real meaning to watch the film several several times
. lynch has been known to do tihs with a number of his films meaning he may be too esoteric forthe some hoping tothe get a hollywood ending where the good guy gets the girl
and everything turns out fine
.
however
, fo fans of odd difficult indies
,
" blue velvet
" could be jsut what they are looking for
. it is very hard to discuss
" blue velvet
" wihtout discussing the performance of dennis hopper ' s sadistic frank
. most of the other actors in the film were not very memorable
. kyle maclachlan lacked one important aspect for his role
, a perosnality
. laura dern was consistently annoying
.
but dennis hopper stole every scene he was in
. his evil chracter was just plain old frightening in his mannerisms from his obsession to velvet to his incessant breathing from a gas mask
. frank is a character that comes allong once in a blue moon
. many producers know this
and have inevitably begun to typecast hopper as the bad guy
. just like his villain in
" speed
"
, hopper is over the edge with cursing
anbd screaming every chance he has to speak
. this harshness is exactly what frank is
, so weird
and twisted that it is hard not to look at him
, even if he theatens you to look away
.
" blue velvet
" has characters
and stoies you will never see in a movie again
. for this sole reason it is recommended
.
but also see it to admire lynch ' s obsession to avoid hte norm
. even if this film is a little too weird for you
, it ' s hard not tothe congratulate a guy for trying something new
and sticking to it
.