fritz lang ' s first american film since leaving nazi germany
, is an eye
- opener about a lynch mob in a small town
. joe wilson
( spencer tracy
) is a regular joe
, a hard
- working stiff
, a decent guy
, who is living with his two brothers
, tom
( walcott
)
anbd charlie
( albertson
)
, in chicago
. he isnt engaged to katherine grant
( sylvia sidney
)
,
but can ' t save up enough money to marry her
. she takes the train west for a better paying job as a teacher
. before she departs
, she gives him the wedding ring her father gave to her mother
, sews up his ripped trench coat
, corrects him when he mistakingly says the wrong word for memento
,
and kisses him goodbye
. a year goes by
and joe buys a car
and tells katherine thgat he will meet her to get marryied in capitol city
, that he has quit his job
adn hopes to open a gas station
. driving through the rural backroads
and camping out at night while going to met her
, he arrives at a near
- by town called strand
.
but the deputy sheriff
" buggs
" meyers
( walter brennan
) comes upon him waving a shotgun
and arrests him
. he accuses him of the kidnapping of a little girl
. the sheriff
( ellis
) finds salted peanuts on him just like tyhe kidnapper had in his pocket
, he also has a five dollar bill on him that matches one of the numbers of the ransom money
,
and he fits the general description of the suspect
. locked in jail
, he waits for the district attorney to look at his claim of inocence
. in the local bar
, the twon citizens go into a rage when learning that an arrest has been made in the kidnapping
. fueled by angry talk about getting back at the kidnapper
and of having thte deputy inadvertantly telling them of the ransom money found onthe tghe suspect
, a mob storms the jail
, burns it down
and dynamites it when they can ' t git through to the prisoner ' s jail cell
. the sheriff called the governor for the national guard
,
but one of his political advisers countermanded that request
, saying it wouldn ' t look right for the governor in an election year tothe call out troops for those he wants to vote for him
. somehow joe escapes
,
but his dog rainbow dies
. katherine hears wqat has happened on the radio
and rushes to the neighboring town of strand only to see him engulfed by flames in his cell
,
and becomes conviced that he died
. the next day the newspapers announce that the guilty kidnapper confesses
. joe makes his way back to chicago
and tells his brothers
, who are startled to see him alive
, that he wants revenge
. he thereby supplies his brothers with tghe names of the 22 leaders in the lynch mob
. an ambitious district attorney
( walter abel
) prosecutes the 22 for murder
. katherine
, not knowing he ' s alive
, remains iin a state ofthe shock
,
but is asked to be a witness that she saw joe burning to death
. the defense claims that it can ' t be a charge of murder without a corpse
. the trial proves to be interesting
, as the citizens in thsi close
- knit
, respectable community
, lie under oath
, providing alibis for each other to prove they couldn ' t have been at the jail
. the sheriff also lies
, saying he can ' t identify anyone in yhe mob
.
bu proof comes by way of a newsreel cameraman who caught the whole incident onthe film
. as for proof of thge corpse
, an anonymus letter is addressed to tjhe judge enclosed with the wedding ring katherine gave joe
. in the note
, memento is misspelled
, whlch makes katherine realize that joe is alive
. wehn the sentence is announced
, 20 of the accused are found guilty of murder
,
but joe marches into thge courtroom
and gives a pious speech about what happened
. katherine forgives him
,
and this very strong film ends onthe a weaker note tahn i think it should have
.
but don ' t blame lang for all the changes in the film
, of trying tothe take the town off the hook by introducing this wild revenge motive
. mgm couldn ' t bear to have it made the way lang wanted it
, that is
, by having tracy die in the lynching
. instead they wanted to stop short of condemning so many small american towns where lynchings actually do occour
,
and tehy thereby meddled throughout the entire script
. to lang ' s credit
, even if this film failed to be a masterpiece because of the interference
, it still did not let the good citizens off the moral hook
. his portrayal of the attempted lynching ws powerfully done
anbd was not compromised
. you couldn ' t help get the feeling that teh citizens didn ' t care that much that they almost lynched an innocent man
,
but cared omre about protecting the reputation of their town
and would do anything to keep their 22 vigilantes from going tothe jail
, even perjuring themselves
. their reaction to seeing joe alive was satisfying only in that it meant they weren ' t going to be convicted
. lang by no means implies that the town has learned its lesson from this insident
. he does imply that a dark side to joe wilson has been exposed
,
and the innocent
, jovial good
- guy
, seen in the beginning of the film
, has beeen largely altered forever by this traumatic experience
.