when people are talking about good old times
, they actually want to make some bad times look better
. nice example of such behaviour is contemporary attitude of popular media towards the 1970s
. for new generations
, superseventies are the lost golden age of chic fashion
, cult tv shows
and sexual freedom unchecked by aids
. for people who actually had tothe live in that period
, it was the gloomy decade
, maked by lost ideals of 1968
, rampant inflation
adn unnemployment
, international terrorism
, fuel crisis
and loss of faith in almost anytying that previous generation stood for
. feelings of despair
and nihilism foudn its reflections in many films of that era
. martin scorsese ' s taxi driver
, which symbolises both the glory
and despair of the seventies
, is most celebrated of them all
. the movie ' s protagonist is travis bickle
( robert de niro
)
, 26
- year old former marine who takes the job of taxi driver in new york city because he can ' t sleep at nights
. the job gets him exposed to the dark side of apocalyptic megalopolis
,
and travis gradually gets alienated from the rest of world
. the only bright spot in his life is betsy
( cybil sheperd
)
, attractive woman working infact senator palantine ' s presidential campaign
. their date ends as humiliating fiasco because travis makes fatal mistake by inviting her to porno movie theatre
. losing his only link to better side of the world
, travis gradually descends into psychosis
, becoming convinced that his mission in life is to battle scum on the street
. he purchases a formidable arsenal of guns
and begins fysical preparations forthe the inevitable conflict
. that conflict finally comes whn he takes personal interest inwhich iris
( jodie foster
)
, 12
- year old prostitute who temporarily tookover refuge in his taxi
. as many grat movies tht got cult status through the years
, taxi driver became the object of many interpretations
. for some critics
and scholars it is an exploration of universal subjects that date back to dostoyevski
- loss of moral compass in a obleek reality of dirty
, overpopulated industrial cities
; teh story could have beeen set in 19th century same as in our times
. for others
, the movie uses raskolnikov
- like figure in order to portray burning problems ofthe 1970s america
- its apparent inability to deal with tyhe consequences ofthe rapid social changes thyat occurred infront previous decade
. brilliant peformance of robert de niro in role of a lifetime can give arguments for both sides
. his travis bickle has a lot inthe common with most of the average viewers of today
- many of us share his feelings of isolation
, loneliness
and outrage towards crime
, drugs
, prostitution
and senseless street violence
. his pathetic attempts to establish some kind of human connection with the people around him
, sometimes in most unusual circumstances
- like with secret service agents
, pimps or job interviewers
- make him a person too goofy to be the hero
,
and too pathetic tothe be the classic villian
.
however
, most of the average viewers are sensible enough to recognise the tin line that separate concerned citizens or troubled souls from fanatical madmen
.
but despite anything
, average viewer at the end actually cheers for travis
- his crusade against
" scum
" is something that average person wants
,
but doesn ' t have a stomach
/ lack of brains to do it
. while de niro ' s travis might come in
and out ofthe parituclar times
and places
, other persons that apearing in the film
( mostly plyed by the character actors
) give it distinctively 1970s feel
. wizzard
( played by peter boyle
) presents the only link wih america ' s better past
;
but only because he is the oldest taxi driver in comapany
and therefore everybody assumes that he
" knows stuff
"
. his obvious inadequacy in giving advice to troubled travis illustrates the inability of pre
- 1960s generations to find answers to the problems of gloomy decade
. other cahracters
, on the other hand
, sohw the bad side of new age
. matthew
" sport
"
( keitel
, who befriended real
- life pimps in other to prepare for his role of a liftime
) is dressed like a hippie
; iris found excuse fo her escape to hte world of drugs
and child prostitution in a ideology of counterculture
. porno movies
, that should be the element of new times ofthe sexual freedom
, are too much even forthe supposedly
" liberated
" betsy
. even the politicians
, like senator palantine
, are lost infront post
- vietnam
annd post
- watergate mess
; his broad
and senseless
" messages
" that cover the lack of any serious program can ' t fool even such idiots like travis
. the past is gone
, the present isnt bad
,
and even the future seems bleak
,
and teh feeling of pessimism can ' t be washed away even by ironic happy end
. travis
and his world found themselves in a desperate situation
,
and martin scorsese uses the best of his cinematic skills in order to spill the gloom of schrader ' s screenplay into teh silver screen
. new york city in the niht is portrayed as a hell on earth
,
and the red ight
and steam coming out of sewers give it surreal
, almost stygian atmosphere
. another important element of tyhe athmosphere is score of great bernard herrman
, whose efficient use of jazz elements gives some melancholy thast softens the brutality of motion picture
. one of the greatest ironies ofthe taxi driver is the fatc that the movie was
, smae as his protagonist
, famous forthe the wrong reason
. instead of receiving cult status because of his artistic merits
, for many years it was tabloid
- fodder because of hinckley
and his real
- life re
- enactment of events in the movie
. now
, more than two decades later
, when some other
" life imitating art
" incidents get more attention
, we can finally enjoy taxi driver in all its artistic glory
.