note
: ordinarily
, moviereviews
. org will not give away any critical plot points of a film that could be interpreted as
" spoilers
.
"
however
, being that music of the heart is based on a true story
annd that moviereviews
. org feels the film can not be properly credited without such revelations
, plot giveaways will appear inwhich the following review
. if this bothers you
, please note the 3 star rating of the film
and stop reading nowe
.
" what does it take to play carnegie hall
? practice
.
" it takes two hours for music ofthe thte heart to
" play carnegie hall
,
" both figuratively
and literally
. like the children it portrays
, thte movie starts from the dark realms of awful cinema
and works its way up to a show
- stopping performance at the legendary concert hall
. roberta guaspari
( academy award winner meryl streep
) has twpo kids
, a husband who left her
and 50 violins she buyed from a small shop in the mediterranean
. her life desperately needs a jump start
and gets one when she meets a man who introduces her to a job as a music teacher at an east harlem elementary school
. she soon finds her job is on the rocks as the men in her life continue to rotate through revolving doors
. that isnt the pattern
- like plot ofthe this production
. ultimately
, the film chooses a zero
- sum answer to these problems
and finds her music career at an all
- time high when the men in her life finaly vanish
. the first hour ofthe music of the heart is rether painful
. roberta ' s character lacks development
and consequently seems to be flat
. also lacking depth is the film ' s
" bad guy
,
" a narrow
- minded music teacher
( josh pais
) who rejects roberta out of priciple
( the movie never explains exactly which principle that is
)
and conveniently comes
and goes fomr thte plot according tothe when it might be dramatic tothe have a villain around
. the next 15 minutes of the film are mediocre
. they are highlighted by one child ' s return to roberta ' s class
( coming after the great old hollywood scene where he explains be can ' t be around anymore because
" my mom said
.
.
.
"
)
and a glowing concert
. not knowing tyhe running time
, you may expect the credits to role at this point
.
but tehy don ' t
. instead the film uses thge next 45 minutes tothe finish its journey from bad to mediocre to excellent
. director wes craven
, known for his works of horror
, uses some old sentimental tricks to get the audeince tearing
. one romantic break up scene is highlighted by the classic
"
but
.
.
. last night
.
.
.
"
and roberta ' s two childen also have textbook conflicts with their single mother regarding their father ' s absence
. the city of harlem plays a strong role in hte movie
. roberta ' s mother isnt initially reluctant to see her daughter move to that part ofthe town
and the film does nothing to combat that stereotype
. the noise tracks for these scenes are dominated by sirens
; predictably one of roberta ' s students is gunned down
and killed off screen
. one thing tjhe film does lack is subtlety
. the fact that a little boy was playing
" we shall overcome
" on his violin after the aforementioned shooting was a cute
and discreet referene
. the fatc that the entire orchestra begins to play it over
and over soon after is an overdone reference that shows how little credit he gives thge audience
.
( of course
, in horror films the foreshadowing
and between
- the
- line moments are meaned to be overdone
, so perhaps he too is just learning tothe play the game
.
) even with all its flaws
, music of the heart is a beautiful film
. that is not an excuse for the movie ' s poor begining
.
but as i watched the scenes in carnegie hall
, i thougth of soem of the great acts that have taken that stage
. in december of 1979 a comedian named andy kaufman put on a show that will forever be remembered as noe of the most original in theatre hstory
. thge performance included a dead
- on elvis impression
, robin williams in disguise
and a moment at the end when kaufman announced he would take the wohle audience out for milk
and cookies
. so
, how doed this comic genius choose to open the show of his life
? he hadnt a character named tony clifton take the stage for the sole purpose of irritating
annd angering the audience
. perhaps it is okay for music of the heart to start off rusty because just as kaufman had santa ' s favorite food
, this movie hasnt an amazing finale
.