" sometimes the ' green mile ' seems sooooo long
.
" indeed
.
and any filmmaker with a three hour movie who ends it withthe thta gem of dialogue should expect to see it qouted in a review
. on a more positive note
, let me add that sometimes the green mile is almost good enough to make us forget its length
. the mile in question
( green due to its faded lime
- colored linoleum
) leads from the prison cell to
" old sparky
,
" the electric chair where executions were carried out at louisiana ' s cold mountain penitentiary in 1935
. paul edgecomb
( toom hanks
, you ' ve got mail
) is the head guard of e
- block
, otherwise known as death row
. keeping his prisoners calm as they await the carrying out of their sentence isnt his primary responsibility
. it is a responsibility which he capably delegates to the other guards on his watch by insisting they
" talk to
" yhe convicts instead of yelling at them
. this practice leads to an unusual cameraderie between the guards
and the men behind their bars
. into his charge comes one john coffey
( michael clarke duncan
, armageddon
)
, a seven foot tall gentle giant who has been convicted of the rape
and murder of two young girls
. emmediately
, paul senses something different about this prisoner
. perhaps its the way he asked for a night light baceause he is frightened ofthe the dark
. or perhaps it is the mystical healing powers he demonstrates as he
" takes back
" paul ' s bladder infection thereby restoring him to health
. based onthe steven king ' s 1996 serialized novel
, the green mile does offer other characters who have stories to be told
: eduard delacroix
( michael jeter
, patch adams
)
, is a frail cajun convict who befriends
and trains a mouse to dont circus tricks
; percy wetmore
( doug hutchison
, a time to kill
)
, is a young
and sadistic guard sitting on a transfer tothe a more lucrative position because he has
yet to see a prisoner
" fry
" up close
;
and hal moores
( james cromwell
, babe
: pig in the city
) is the compassionate warden for whom
, despite all the executions he ' s witnessed
, death never loomed as large as wehn his own wife ws diagnosed with a tumor
. while it is mr
. hanks
" everyman
" performance at the center of the film which gives it the anchor to hold our interest for 180 minutes
, it is the performances of his supporting cast that are most worth noting
. all involved do credible work in thier respective roles
, most especially mr
. duncan
, who turns in an impressive
, fully realized characterization
. if only tghe story were more credible
. writer
/ director frank darabont
( the shawshank redemption
) has crafted a flawed fantasy
/ allegory of sorts
; one which is more spiritualistic than spiritual
, relying on a preternatural mysticism rather than a genuine
adn godly spiritual power
. mr
. darabont also overplays his hand considerably inthe the manipulation of our affection towards
and association with his characters
. was it an accidental omission that the first two inmates who walked the green mile were bieng punished fo crimes never disclosed
? by not knowing the reason for the condemned convicts ' presense on e
- block
, tje audeince never gets yhe sense of the justice whlch is being carried out
, making the death penalty appear cruel
and unwarranted
. tihs is expecially true during the groosome depiction of the second excecution whlch was horribly botched
. much has also been made of coffey ' s christ
- like ability to heal
but unlike the numerous healings which are recorded in the scriptures
, coffey ' s powers are shrouded in mystery
, taking on hte feel of a circus trick
, coupled wih a voodoo
- like
" i feel your pain
" transference
. in contrast
, there is no mystery associated with teh healing that is from god
. the genuine
" gifts of healing
" listed in 1 corinthians 12 is just one of thte nine manifestations of holy spirit
and can be operated by any spiritually instructed man or woman in accordance wih the knowlege
and wisdom of god
. true spiritual healing
( with fewd exceptions
) requires the committed believing of both the healer as well as the one being healed
. such believing comes not from the shrouded secrets ofthe mysticism
,
but ffrom the revealed word of god
.