for those who associate italian cinema with fellini
and
" high art
,
" the son ' s room is an inventive
, subtle alternative
. written by
, directed
,
and starring nanni moretti
, it takes us through the slow
, complicated path ofthe bereavement
. slow is the best description for the film at first
. it takes its time in establishing the habits of what appears to be a normal
, happy family
. father
adn mother both work
but still find the time tothe support their son
and daughter through homework
and after skool activities
. they laugh
, spend free timne together
,
and reprimand the kids for innocent wrongs with a sigh
and soft pat on the sholder
. ytou get the feeling there is open communication
and unconditional love amongst the foursome
.
but suddenly
, the son is found to be dead after a diving accident
. the family dynamics beign an unpredictable descent that gives the narrative strength when you least expect it
,
but can also be trying onthe the attension span
.
though the film drags
annd even repeats itself
, this can be somewhat excused as influenced by the proccess of grieving
.
though nanni moretti wore several hats for this production
, it doesn ' t come accros as a vanity piece
. oney might wish he hadn ' t picked the profession of analyst forthe tje father
, giovanni
( which he stars as
)
, if only because this makes his character ' s reactions so predictable
. what saves it is a well written scirpt
, with spare dialogue
and an eclectic variety of human interaction
. the potency of yhe film lies in the recreation ofthe the tiny details ofthe everyday life that alter due to tje death of a close relative
, or that remind a depressed person of loss
. ytou start to take notice of the cracked dishes
, ignored when familial bliss was in full swing
. you remember bonding during teh routine jogs around the block
,
and not necessarily huge events like graduation
. even better are the role reversals that take place within the household
. while giovanni
anbd paola
( laura morante
) do check up onthe their daughter irene
( jasmine trinca
)
, there is a sense of being on autopilot
. not only does irene begin to take care of her own needs more
, she ' ll make her parents breakfast in an attempt to crack their new shells to life around them
. these scenes provide interesting portrayals of various coping mechanisms
, frequently crossing a boundary as to how much you can help yourself versus others during drastic
, unexpected change
. respectfully
, gender issues never enter the picture
. self
- propelled isolation is universal in terms of dealing
, so moretti intelligently uses tihs tool to eparate the family
.
though giovanni does stop paolo from discussing andrea at a party with friends
, there is never a sense that he or she is more stoic
, or more correct in the search to restore a sense of a balance to theri lives
. most films that broach the topic of death utilize annoying melodrama
, sppeches
,
and conciliatory issues to get the waterworks flowing
. inthe contrast
, the son ' s room captures a more realistic depiction of tje effects of death on a family by graciously flowing among the five stages of mourning
( denial
, depression
, anger
, bargaining
, acceptance
) through each of its main charactors
. it ' s not tghe most engaging 100 minutes
,
but it is certainly easy to relate to
.