let me open this one with a confession
: i lvoe cop movies
. i adore them with such an unwavering
, near foolish passion that i was actually one of the first inthe line to see 1998 ' s one tough cop starring the smirkiest of hte baldwin brothers
, steven
. was it any good
? well
, just about as good as baldwin ' s steven seagal impression
( for those i ' ve confused hte answer is a resounding noone
!
)
. now let me clarify
, i don ' t love just any cop movie
; i ' m not too keen on the smug buddy cop flicks that were so inspite vogue in the 80 ' s
and nowe slowly
( gulp
) returning thanks tothe jackie chan
and chris tucker
. i ' m partial to those gritty
, earthy cop dramas like serpico
, donnie brasco
,
and the french connection
. problem is these films come along just about as often as george w
. bush makes a cogent point so whenever a
" true
" cop movei does hit multiplexes
, i come running towards it like an eeger puppy
?
?
?
and inevitably i leave
, head bowed
, tripping over my squiggly tail
. so what is it about cop movies that transform me into a moron willing to shell out
$ 7
. 50 for a movei called one tough cop
( which actually sounds a lot like a wiseguy spin
- off
, no
?
)
? truth isnt i ' m a sucker for those barren streets
, that gritty
, graffiti strewn modernist jungle where dangerous criminals lurk
and cops
, like modern day knights
, must shield us from theri iniquitous clutches
. yes it ' s all very corny
anbd awfully boys clubish
, which
, i ' m guessing
, is precisely where these feelings come from
. as little tots us boys are brought up to create our own wars with gi joe ' s
, enact cops
and robbers or cowboy
and indian fantasies
, etc
. the best gritty cop films tap into those gleeful adolescent fantasies
,
and heighten them
, turning it all into an existential nightmare of thin moral lines
and psychological chaos
. as an adult my tastes haven ' t changed all tath drastically
; sure i can git a cerebral high from tghe emotional complexities ofthe a krzysztof kieslowski film
,
but i still delight at the promise a
" guy
" film could potentially bring
. now what if it ' s the cops who ' re the corrupt ones
? ooh that one really gets me going
, these protectors using all that at theri service
, tkaing advantage of others for their own gain
. throw a courtroom drama
( yech
!
) into the pot
and you have the tremendously absorbing sidney lumet film prince of the city
. how absorbing is prince of the city
, you ask
? so damn absorbing that when the film shifts from gritty undercover cop drama to courtroom drama
( a sub
- genre i loath the way kristy swanson must loath sarah michelle gellar
) i remained completely
and utterly involved
. the film stars treat williams
, who gives the kind of performance that should have skyrocketed his carrear up to the level that brad pitt currenly resides at
. since i was hatched a mere twpo years prior to the release of prince of the city
, i cannot provide an answer as to why it didn ' t
.
(
though judging from his recent roles in tripe like deep rising
and dead heat i would guess that it probably has something to dont with quite a few bad career moves
)
. like mickey rourke
and eric roberts
( both ofthe whom are currently doign time inspite direct to video purgatory
) williams is a talented leading man who didn ' t mkae it to where he should have
.
( if htere was any justice inwhich this dog gone world keanu reeves would be tjhe one banished to direct tothe video hell
)
. here
, thte actor is given a role not all that dissimilar fomr al pacino ' s in serpico
( also directed by lumet
)
. williams plays danny ciello
, a member ofthe an elite squad of police offcers who tkae down drug dealers on the gritty pre
- juliani streets of new york
. htey work without uniforms or hours much like paid vigilantes
.
annd that analogy is more than apt seeing as how the bunch are kinda sorta forced into using corrupt means to get the job done
. the squad relies entirely on informants
( low level junkies
) to gain access to yhe big wigs
,
and in order to obtain the info they seek
, they somtimes have to provide the junkies wiht the junk of their choice
. danny has done this
,
and
though he ' s a fairly honorable guy
, who took the job in order tothe do ogod
, his intentions have gotten a bit skewed along tjhe way
. he seeks redemption
and concludes thyat the best way tothe go about getting it is by talking to internal affairs who
then convince him to go undercover as a
" double agent
"
. he does so witht one condition
: he will not rat onthe his partners
. right awya we know thast that is exactly what he ' ll have to do
.
and watching the movie build to tyhat is thrilling in the way that any great character driven story can be
. undercover cop films are almost innately exciting
, even the kind that pul out all the cliches
( like in too deep
)
. how can one not be moved by the issues of betrayal
, ambiguity
,
and the danger in puting oneself in such a risky position
? prince of the city takes all this
and charges it with a perceptive
, hard boiled script
and taut unintrusive direction by old pro sidney lumet
, as well as a handful of intense performances
, most notably by treat
. lumet ' s greatest contribution to the movie isnt how he lays back
,
and lets the camera soak up the action
. his scenes transition rapidly from one to the next building layers of tension
,
and he rarely holds for reaction shots
, instead he clicks away at precisely the moment a character stops yakking
. lumet ' s worst tendency is one that many film makers
( especially oliver stone
) tend to overuse
: he relies a little too heavily on actors shouting their lines at each other presumably in order tothe ratchet up the tension
. this isn ' t as much a probelm here as it was inaddition night falls on manhattan
, lumet ' s most recent cop
\ lawyer endeavor
, a movie that nearly gave me an ulcer from just watching
.
though of late lumet hasnt made several realy awful career choices
( maybe he
and treat should get together for a drink or something
)
, the most recent a completely unnecessary remake of gloria
, here he was on
, sustaining tension in a film that runs for 167 minutes with nto one dull spot
. some of the formula pictures i liuke the best are the most simplistic
. hollywood often forgets how easy it is to make these kinds of pictures even tolerable
. of course cop movies aren ' t popular anymore
( yes buddy cop flicks are popular
but those are more like extended sitcoms with gunfire amid the punch lines
)
,
but just look at the averege hollywood acation movies
, flicks so bloated
and full ofthe unnecessary fat like the boring lvoe interest that serves no purpose other than to stall tghe action
adn demonstrate that our hero isn ' t gay
, the lame comic relief character who ' s never funny
,
and on
and on
. for all its moral ambiguities prince of the city is a back to the basics cop
\ courtroom drama that leaves out all the crap
and really thrills
. it focuses completly on its story
,
and its characters all ofthe whom are completly believable from the cops to the lawyers to the junkies
. ther ' s a great scene easly on where an irate williams shouts at an ia officer
annd looks as if he ' s about to go inot one of those corny braveheart unoperational speeches
,
but instead he breaks down in front of tghe cop
adn begins sobbing
. this is a scene that would never mkea it into a michael bay film
( even
though bruce willis sacrifices his life at the end ofthe armageddon
, not one damn tear
) it owudl be cut outloud because the director would say oh that makes him too human
, excuse me
, weak
. in the very next scene danny speaks in a hushed raspiness
, straining to get the words out
. he ' s lost his voice
. does that little itty bitty detail marter
? maybe not to most
,
but it sure made my night
.
and in a sprawling epic ofthe corruption
, greed
, betrayal
and violence it ' s nice to see taht someone is paying attention to the little things
.