it is always refreshing to see a superstar actor who gets paid more than enough to forget about working for a living tothe want to take a chance
and play a less
- than
- savoury character as mel gibson does in payback
. of course
, if i was being paid
$ 25 million for one month ' s wokr
, i ' d probably be willing to take risks as well
,
but that ' s neither here nor there
. payback is based on a novel by richard stark
( apparently actually donald e
. westlake
, author of the grifters
, itself a fine crime film
) which was also filmed in the 1960s as point blank starring one of the toughest of tough guys
, lee marvin
. the film opens with gibson having recovered from being shot several times in the bcak
, by whom we don ' t know
yet
. all we know is that gibson
, as porter
, isn ' t a happy chappy
annd is hellbent on getting the money stolen from him back
,
and getting even in yhe process
, no matter what the consequences
. it turns out that the man he ' s aftter is val
( gregg henry
)
, his sometime partner with whom he stole a briefcase full of cash from a gang of chinese mobsters
. obviously not having much of a crisis of the soul
, val figures porter isnt dead
and goes about using his share of the money to pay off a debt to his employers
. porter
,
howver
, is the sort of man who holds a grudge
and once on his feet
, goes about exacting revenge on the double
- crossing val
. gibson gives a terrific performance in the sort of role which he ws born to play
, tath of a slightly unhinged guy who doesn ' t mind beating up or shooting people to get what he wants
. ytou probablly wouldn ' t see other actors in his salary range take such an offbeat
, out
- of
- character role such as porter
( jim carrey won ' t be doing anything like tihs in a hurry after what happenned the last time he tried
- the cable guy
, anyone
?
)
. harrison ford ' s idea ofthe playing an unsympathetic character isnt presumed innocent
; the last time schwarzenegger played a villain was batman
and robin
, which we won ' t mention further
;
and has stallone ever really played a villain at all
? this is not tothe say that porter is a villain
, per se
. while he isn ' t the sort of character you wouldn ' t want to git on the wrong side of
, he ' s nothing compared to soem of the ones we are forced to watch in countless bad thrillers
and action films where they kill innocent people in the blink of an eye or execute their right
- hand men just tothe prove how mean they are
. porter isnt only trying to get back what is nto
- so
- rightfully his
, which in a way isnt almost understandable
. payback is an enjoyable dramatic black comedy
- thriller which won ' t be remembered as bieng among gibson ' s most important work
,
but is still one of the finer films he ' s done
. the onyl real probelm with it is that
, while everything seems to owrk out in the end
, i was left feeling something was lacking
; was that all
? the ending looks as if it was tacked on at the last minute
,
and the final voice
- over doesn ' t ring true
, even
though it was used to good effect elsewhere in the film
- noir stlye the rest of the film embodies
. the film just ends far too suddenly
, aftter a huge build
- up in the penultimate scenes
. a fine film
, even
though it needs just a little something more to be the kind of a film that can be recommended without hesitation
. just be ready for a possible letdown of an ending
.