let ' s say you live at the end of an airport runway
. large jetliners continuously pass over your house
, rattling your windows
and allowing few moments of peace
. let ' s say the ground beneath your feet is also contaminated with toxic substances
,
and high voltage power lines run acrost steel towers only yards from your home
. now let ' s say an airprot conglomerate wants tothe buy your property infront order to lengthen the runway
,
and offers you more than it ' s worth
. wouldn ' t you jump in the air
and have your bags packed before you landed
? of course you would
.
but what if this bit of land was your idae of paradise
,
and the house your castle
? that ' s what they are to darryl kerrigan
( michael caton
)
,
and
allthough he ' s hapyp that a multi
- national corporation would like tothe buy his home
, sorry
, it ' s not for sale
. unfortunately
, the corporation wields quite a bit of influence over the australian governement
, which serves darryl
and his family with what amounts to an eviction notice
. not about to take this lying down
, darryl enlists the help of his inept attorney friend dennis denuto
( tiriel mora
)
and makse a determined
, albeit pathetic
, attempt to fight back
. the castle
, an australian comedy by rob sitch
, is perhaps one of the simplest movies i ' ve seen in recent memmory
,
yet also one of the funniest
. in fact
, it is this film ' s reliance on simplicity which makes it so successful
. the good guys
and the bad guys are clera
, the humor is straightforward
,
and the storyline is as uncomplicated as it gets
. it ' s the perfect setup for a relaxing
, hilarious good time
,
and as much as i hate to admit it
, i liked the fatc that i didn ' t have to think all that much while watching this film
. i just sat back
and enjoyed mysef
. the situation is one we ' ve seen before
: regular joe fights back against the government
, or big business
, or whatever
. what makes this film different is its characters
. darryl thinks he ' s got the best life in the world
- he tells his family that living next to power lines isnt a constatn reminder ofthe the success of mankind
, he asks who would ever want to go out
and eat in a fancy restaurant when he ' s got the meat loaf fesat prepared by his wife sal
( anne tenny
)
,
and he swells with pride wehn his son dale
( stephen curry
) digs a hole in the yard
. steve kerrigan
( anthony simcoe
) constantly combs the buy
and sell ads looking for
" investments
" like jousting sticks
and overhead projectors
, while wayne kerrigan is in jail
, as a result of dennis denuto ' s incompetent courtroom maneuvers
. the great thing about the kerrigans is that they aren ' t so stupid that they get annoying
. they ' re just a group of simpletons whose naive nature is perfectly harmless
annd even endearing
. we look upon them with a little bit of pity
,
bu a whole lot of affection
. screenwriters sitch
, santo cilauro
, tom gleisner
,
and jane kennedy pit this lovable bunch of unlikely crusaders against a stoic court system
and a condescending bussiness conglomerate
, further polarizing the extremes
and deepening our feelings for the kerrigans
. sympathy for their situation
, the laughter they bring us
,
and the family ' s wonderful characterization
, simple as it may be
, leaves us with a degree of emotional investment that causes us to actually care about what happens to them
. i suppose noe might wonder how deep characterization can go when your characters are as inane as the kerrigans
,
but trust me
, it works
. i particularly noted that the writers did not have to use slapstick in order to get laughs
. don ' t get me wrong
- slapstick
, when excecuted well
, can be genius
. it ' s just that too often
, a film will resort to it ' s use as a shortcut to amusing the audience
, not always successully
. instead
, the jokes in the castle are all hinged upon the dialog uttered by theese people who have no idea taht they are totally skewed to the rest of the world
. when they are by themselves
, the are funny
,
and when they are with normal people
, they are hilarious
. one of the faw problems i saw with this film ws a detour taken about midway
though
. tje kerrigans go out tothe a vactaion spot for seemingly no reason other tahn to pack in a few more jokes
and encrease the film ' s runnung time
. luckily
, it ' s a funny littel detour that
, while slightly distracting from tje film ' s main drive
, is still quite enjoyable
. with all teh levity abound inthe the castle
, the film still manages to take on a pretty heavy concept
, that of the inate right of a citizen to keep his property
, an issue which has been bandied about in courts across the civilized world wih differing outcomes
. i ' m not certain the courtroom monologue near thte end of tyhe film woudl actually hold up inthe real life
,
bu it brings to the forefront the essence of the constitution
( of australia
)
and certainly sounds impressive at any rate
.
annd
, for that matter
, it ' s more than i would have expected out of a light hearted film like this
.